
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE APPALACHICOLA BAND, 1832.
         
         Oct. 11, 1832. | 7 Stat., 377. | Proclamation, Feb. 13, 1833.
         
         Page Images:
            352
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Reservation relinquished to United States, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payments by United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Time fixed for evacuation.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Annuity to Blunt and Davy.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 352
      
      
      THE undersigned chiefs, for and in behalf of themselves and warriors, surrender to the United States, all their right, title
         and interest to a reservation of land made for their benefit, in the additional article of the treaty, concluded at Camp Moultrie, in the Territory
         of Florida, on the 18th of September, eighteen hundred and twenty-three, and which is described in said article, “as commencing
         on the Appalachicola, one mile below Tuski Hajo's improvements, running up said river four miles, thence west two miles, thence
         southerly to a point due west of the beginning, thence east to the beginning point,” and agree to remove with their warriors
         and families, now occupying said reservation, and amounting in all to (256) two hundred and fifty-six souls, to the west of
         the Mississippi river, beyond the limits of the States and Territories of the United States of America.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE II.
      
      For, and in consideration of said surrender, and to meet the charges of a party to explore immediately the country west in
         search of a home more suitable to their habits, than the one at present occupied, and in full compensation for all the expenses
         of emigration, and subsistence for themselves and party: The United States agree to pay to the undersigned chiefs, and their warriors, thirteen thousand dollars; three thousand dollars in cash, the receipt
         of which is herewith acknowledged, and ten thousand dollars whenever they have completed their arrangements, and have commenced
         the removal of their whole party.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE III.
      
      The undersigned chiefs, with their warriors and families, will evacuate the reservation of land surrendered by the first article
         of this agreement, on or before the first of November, eighteen hundred and thirty-three; but should unavoidable circumstances
         prevent the conclusion of the necessary preparatory arrangements by that time, it is expected that the indulgence of the government of the United States will be reasonably extended for a term, not
         to exceed however another year.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE IV.
      
      
         The United States further stipulate to continue to Blunt and Davy (formerly Tuski Hajo deceased) the Chiefs of the towns now consenting to emigrate, their proportion of the
         annuity of five thousand dollars which they at present draw, and to which they are entitled under the treaty of Camp Moultrie,
         so long as they remain in the Territory of Florida, and to advance their proportional amount of the said annuity for the balance
         of the term stipulated for its payment in the treaty aforesaid; whenever they remove in compliance of the terms of this agreement.
         
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the commissioner, James Gadsden, in behalf of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors
         have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals.
         Done at Tallahassee, in the territory of Florida, this eleventh day of October one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two,
         and of the Independence of the United States the fifty-seventh.
      
      
      James Gadsden, commissioner, &c. [L. S.]
      
      John Blunt, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      O Saa-Hajo, or Davy, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Co-ha-thlock-co, or Cockrane, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Witnesses:
      
            Wm. P. Duval, superintendent,
      
            Stephen Richards, interpreter,
      
            Robt. W. Williams,
      
            R. Lewis,
      
            Tho. Brown,
      
            James D. Westcott, jr.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
