
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE BLACKFEET SIOUX, 1865.
         
         Oct. 19, 1865. | 14 Stat., 727. | Ratified Mar. 5, 1866. | Proclaimed Mar. 17, 1866.
         
         Page Images:
            898 | 899
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Jurisdiction of authority of the United States acknowledged, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Persons and property of other tribes not to be first attacked.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Controversies to be submitted to the arbitrament of the President.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to withdraw from overland routes.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payments.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Proviso.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Amendments to be binding.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      Page 898
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Fort Sully, in the Territory of Dakota, by and between Newton Edmunds, governor
            and ex-officio superintendent of Indian affairs, of Dakota Territory, Edward B. Taylor, superintendent of Indian affairs for
            the northern superintendency, Major-General S. R. Curtis, Brigadier-General H. H. Sibley, Henry W. Reed, and Orrin Guernsey,
            commissioners on the part of the United States, duly appointed by the President, and the undersigned chiefs and headmen of
            the Blackfeet band of Dakota or Sioux Indians.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The Blackfeet band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, represented in council, hereby acknowledge themselves to be subject to the
         exclusive jurisdiction and authority of the United States, and hereby obligate and bind themselves, individually and collectively, not
         only to cease all hostilities against the persons and property of its citizens, but to use their influence, and, if necessary, physical force to prevent
         other bands of the Dakota or Sioux, or other adjacent tribes from making hostile demonstrations against the Government of
         the United States, or its people.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      Inasmuch as the Government of the United States is desirous to arrest the effusion of blood between the Indian tribes within
         its jurisdiction hitherto a[t] war with each other, the Blackfeet band of Dakota or Sioux, represented in council, anxious
         to respect the wishes of the Government, hereby agree and bind themselves to discontinue for the future all attacks upon the
         persons or property of other tribes, unless first assailed by them, and to use their influence to promote peace everywhere
         in the region occupied or frequented by them.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      All controversies or differences arising between the Blackfeet band of Dakota or Sioux, represented in council, and other tribes
         of Indians, involving the question of peace or war, shall be submitted for the arbitrament of the President, or such person
         or persons as may be designated by him, and the decision or award faithfully observed by the said band represented in council.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The said band, represented in council, shall withdraw from the routes overland already established or hereafter to be established, through their country, and in consideration
         thereof, the Government of the United States agree to pay to the said band the sum of seven thousand dollars annually, for twenty years, in such articles as the Secretary of the
         Interior may direct: Provided, That said band, so represented in council, shall faithfully conform to the requirements of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      
         Any amendment or modification of this treaty by the [Senate of the United States shall be considered final and binding upon the]
         said band represented in council, as a part of this treaty, in the same manner as if it had been subsequently presented and
         agreed to by the chiefs and headmen of said nation.
         
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof the commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and headmen of the said Blackfeet
         band of the Dakota or Sioux, have hereunto set their hands, this nineteenth day of October, one thousand eight hundred and
         sixty-five, after the contents had previously been read, interpreted, and explained to the said chiefs and headmen.
      
      
      Newton Edmunds,
      
      Edward B. Taylor,
      
      S. R. Curtis, major-general,
      
      H. H. Sibley, brigadier-general,
      
      Henry W. Reed,
      
      Orrin Guernsey.
      
      Page 899
      
          Chiefs:
      
      Wah-hah-chunk-i-ah-pee, The One that is used as a Shield, his x mark.
      
      Wah-mun-dee-wak-kon-o, The War Eagle in the Air, his x mark.
      
          Principal braves or soldiers:
      
      Mah-to-ko-ke-pah, He that Fears the Bear, his x mark.
      
      A-hack-ah-sap-pah, The Black Stag, his x mark.
      
      A-hack-ah-we-chash-tah, The Stag Man, his x mark.
      
      Mah-to-wash-tay, The Good Bear, his x mark.
      
      Tah-ton-kah-ho-wash-tay, The Buffalo with a Fine Voice, his x mark.
      
      Oya-hin-di-a-man-nee, The Track that Rings as it Walks, his x mark.
      
      Shon-kah-hon-skah, The Long Dog, his x mark.
      
      Shon-kah-wah-mun-dee, The Dog War Eagle, his x mark.
      
      Wah-mun-dee-you-hah, He that has the War Eagle, his x mark.
      
      Muz-zah-to-yah, The Blue Iron, his x mark.
      
      Chief Chan-ta-pa-ta, Fire Heart, his x mark.
      
      Chief Chan-ta-non-pas, Two Hearts, his x mark.
      
      Signed by the Commissioners on the part of the United States, and by the chiefs and headmen after the treaty had been fully
         read, interpreted, and explained, in our presence:—
      
      
      A. W. Hubbard, M. C. Sixth District Iowa.
      
      E. F. Ruth, secretary to Commission.
      
      O. D. Barrett, special agent Indian Affairs.
      
      S. S. Curtis, major, Second Colorado Cavalry.
      
      R. R. Hitt, reporter of the Commission.
      
      Zephier Recontre, his x mark,
      
      Charles Degres, his x mark,       Interpreter[s]
      
          Soldiers:
      
      Ce-ha-pa-chi-ke-la, Little Blackfoot, his x mark.
      
      Chan-ta-pe-a, Strong Heart, his x mark.
      
      Non-pa-ge-gu-mugama, Round Hand, his x mark.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
