
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEE, 1816.
         
         Mar. 22, 1816. | 7 Stat., 138. | Ratified Apr. 8, 1816.
         
         Page Images:
            124 | 125
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession by Cherokees to South Carolina.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Bounds of the cession.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States engage for the payment of $5,000 by South Carolina.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Proviso.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      Page 124
      
      
      
         Articles of a treaty made and concluded at the City of Washington, on the 
            twenty-second day of March, one thousand eight hundred and sixteen, 
            between George Graham, being specially authorized by the President of the 
            United States thereto, and the undersigned Chiefs and Headmen of the 
            Cherokee Nation, duly authorized and empowered by the said Nation.
         
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      
         Whereas the Executive of the State of South Carolina has 
         made an application to the President of the United States to extinguish 
         the claim of the Cherokee nation to that part of their lands which lie 
         within the boundaries of the said State, as lately established and agreed 
         upon between that State and the State of North Carolina; and as the 
         Cherokee nation is disposed to comply with the wishes of their brothers 
         of South Carolina, they have agreed and do hereby agree to cede to the 
         State of South Carolina, and forever quit claim to, the tract of 
         country contained within the following bounds, viz.: 
         beginning on the east bank of the Chattuga river, where the boundary line of the
         
      
      
      Page 125
      
      
         Cherokee nation crosses the same running thence, with the said boundary 
         line, to a rock on the Blue Ridge, where the boundary line crosses the 
         same, and which rock has been lately established as a corner to the States 
         of North and South Carolina; running thence, south, sixty-eight and a 
         quarter degrees west, twenty miles and thirty-two chains, to a rock on the 
         Chattuga river at the thirty-fifth degree of north latitude, another corner 
         of the boundaries agreed upon by the State of North and South Carolina; 
         thence, down and with the Chattuga, to the beginning.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      
         For and in consideration of the above cession, the United States promise 
         and engage that the State of South Carolina shall pay to the Cherokee nation, or 
         its accredited agent, the sum of five thousand dollars, within ninety days after 
         the President and Senate shall have ratified this treaty: Provided, 
         That the Cherokee nation shall have sanctioned the same in Council: And 
            provided also, That the Executive of the State of South Carolina shall approve 
         of the stipulations contained in this article.
         
         
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said commissioner, and the undersigned
         chiefs and head men of the Cherokee nation, have hereto set their hands 
         and seals.
      
      
      George Graham, [L. S.]
      
      Colonel John Lowry, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Major John Walker, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Major Ridge, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Richard Taylor, [L. S.]
      
      John Ross, [L. S.]
      
      Cheucunsene, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Witnesses present at signing and sealing:
      
      Return J. Meigs,
      
      Jacob Laub,
      
      Gid. Davis.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
