
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEE, 1791. 
         
         July 2, 1791. | 7 Stat., 39. | Proclamation, Feb. 7, 1792
         
         Page Images:
            29 | 30 | 31 | 32 | 33
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Peace and friendship perpetual.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians acknowledge protection of United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Prisoners to be restored.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Boundaries.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Stipulation for a road.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to regulate trade.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Guarantee.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     No citizen to settle on Indian lands.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Nor hunt on the same.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to deliver up criminals.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Citizens of United states committing crimes in Indian territory to be punished.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Retaliation restrained.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cherokees to give notice of designs against United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to make presents.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Animosities to cease.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Ratification.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Increase of annual payment to Indians.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      
         A Treaty of Peace and Friendship made and concluded between the President of the United States
            of America, on the Part and Behalf of the said States, and the undersigned Chiefs and Warriors 
            of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, on the Part and Behalf of the said nation.
         
      
      
      
      
         The parties being desirous of establishing permanent peace and friendship between the United 
         States and the said Cherokee Nation, and the citizens and members thereof, and to remove the 
         causes of war, by ascertaining their limits and making other necessary, just and friendly 
         arrangements: The President of the United States, by William Blount, Governor of the territory 
         of the United States of America, south of the river Ohio, and Superintendant of Indian affairs 
         for the southern district, who is vested with full powers for these purposes, by and with the 
         advice and consent of the Senate of the United States: And the Cherokee Nation by the undersigned 
         Chiefs and Warriors representing the said nation, have agreed to the following articles, namely:
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      
         
         There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of 
         America, and all the individuals composing the whole Cherokee nation of Indians.
         
      
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      
         
         The undersigned Chiefs and Warriors, for themselves and all parts of the Cherokee nation, do 
         acknowledge themselves and the said Cherokee nation, to be under the protection of the said 
         United States of America, and of no other sovereign whosoever; and they also stipulate that 
         the said Cherokee nation will not hold any treaty with any foreign power, individual state, or 
         with individuals of any state.
         
      
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      
         
         The Cherokee nation shall deliver to the Governor of the territory of the United States of 
         America, south of the river Ohio, on or before the first day of April next, at this place, all 
         persons who are now prisoners, captured by them from any part of the United States: And the 
         United States shall on or before the same day, and at that same place, restore to the Cherokees, 
         all the prisoners now in captivity, which the citizens of the United States have captured from 
         them.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      
         
         The boundary between the citizens of the United States and the
         Cherokee nation, is and shall be as follows: Beginning at the top of the
         
      
      
      Page 30
      
      
         Currahee mountain, where the Creek line passes it; thence a direct line to Tugelo river; thence 
         northeast to the Occunna mountain, and over the same along the South-Carolina Indian boundary 
         to the North-Carolina boundary; thence north to a point from which a line is to be extended to 
         the river Clinch, that shall pass the Holston at the ridge which divides the waters running into 
         Little River from those running into the Tennessee; thence up the river Clinch to Campbell's line, and along the same to the
         top of Cumberland mountain; thence a direct line to the Cumberland river where the Kentucky road crosses it;
         thence down the Cumberland river to a point from which a south west line will strike the ridge 
         which divides the waters of Cumberland from those of Duck river, forty miles above Nashville; 
         thence down the said ridge to a point from whence a south west line will strike the mouth of 
         Duck river.
         
      
      
      
         And in order to preclude forever all disputes relative to the said boundary, the same shall be 
         ascertained, and marked plainly by three persons appointed on the part of the United States, 
         and three Cherokees on the part of their nation.
         
      
      
      
         And in order to extinguish forever all claims of the Cherokee nation or any part thereof, to 
         any of the land lying to the right of the line above described, beginning as aforesaid at the 
         Currahee mountain, it is hereby agreed, that in addition to the consideration heretofore made 
         for the said land, the United States will cause certain valuable goods, to be immediately 
         delivered to the undersigned Chiefs and Warriors, for the use of their nation; and the said 
         United States will also cause the sum of one thousand dollars to be paid annually to the said 
         Cherokee nation. And the undersigned Chiefs and Warriors, do hereby for themselves and the 
         whole Cherokee nation, their heirs and descendants, for the considerations above-mentioned, 
         release, quit-claim, relinquish and cede, all the land to the right of the line described, and 
         beginning as aforesaid.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      
         
         It is stipulated and agreed, that the citizens and inhabitants of the United States, shall have 
         a free and unmolested use of a road from Washington district to Mero district, and of the 
         navigation of the Tennessee river.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      
         
         It is agreed on the part of the Cherokees, that the United States shall have the sole and 
         exclusive right of regulating their trade.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 7.
      
      
         
         The United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee nation, all their lands not hereby ceded.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 8.
      
      
         
         If any citizen of the United States, or other person not being an Indian, shall settle on any 
         of the Cherokees' lands, such person shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the 
         Cherokees may punish him or not, as they please.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 9.
      
      
         
         No citizen or inhabitant of the United States, shall attempt to hunt or destroy the game on the 
         lands of the Cherokees; nor shall any citizen or inhabitant go into the Cherokee country, without 
         a passport first obtained from the Governor of some one of the United States, or 
         
      
      
      Page 31
      
      
         territorial districts, or such other person as the President of the United States may from time 
         to time authorize to grant the same.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 10.
      
      
         
         If any Cherokee Indian or Indians or person residing among them, or who shall take refuge in 
         their nation, shall steal a horse from, or commit a robbery or murder, or other capital crime, 
         on any citizens or inhabitants of the United States, the Cherokee nation shall be bound to 
         deliver him or them up, to be punished according to the laws of the United States.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 11.
      
      
         
         If any citizen or inhabitant of the United States, or of either of the territorial districts 
         of the United States, shall go into any town, settlement or territory belonging to the 
         Cherokees, and shall there commit any crime upon, or trespass against the person or property 
         of any peaceable and friendly Indian or Indians, which if committed within the jurisdiction of 
         any state, or within the jurisdiction of either of the said districts, against a citizen or 
         white inhabitant thereof, would be punishable by the laws of such state or district, such 
         offender or offenders, shall be subject to the same punishment, and shall be proceeded against 
         in the same manner as if the offence had been committed within the jurisdiction of the state 
         or district to which he or they may belong, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 12.
      
      
         
         In case of violence on the persons or property of the individuals of either party, neither 
         retaliation or reprisal shall be committed by the other, until satisfaction shall have been 
         demanded of the party of which the aggressor is, and shall have been refused.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 13.
      
      
         
         The Cherokees shall give notice to the citizens of the United States, of any designs which 
         they may know, or suspect to be formed in any neighboring tribe, or by any person whatever, 
         against the peace and interest of the United States.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 14.
      
      
         
         That the Cherokee nation may be led to a greater degree of civilization, and to become herdsmen 
         and cultivators, instead of remaining in a state of hunters, the United States will from time 
         to time furnish gratuitously the said nation with useful implements of husbandry, and further to 
         assist the said nation in so desirable a pursuit, and at the same time to establish a certain 
         mode of communication, the United States will send such, and so many persons to reside in said 
         nation as they may judge proper, not exceeding four in number, who shall qualify themselves to 
         act as interpreters. These persons shall have lands assigned by the Cherokees for cultivation 
         for themselves and their successors in office; but they shall be precluded exercising any kind 
         of traffic.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 15.
      
      
         
         All animosities for past grievances shall henceforth cease, and the contracting parties will 
         carry the foregoing treaty into full execution with all good faith and sincerity.
         
      
      
      Page 32
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 16.
      
      
         
         This treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the 
         same shall have been ratified by the President of the United States, with the advice and 
         consent of the Senate of the United States.
         
      
      
      
      
      In witness of all and every thing  herein determined between the United States of America and
         the whole Cherokee nation, the parties have hereunto set their hands and seals, at the treaty 
         ground on the bank of the Holston, near the mouth of the French Broad, within the United States, 
         this second day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
      
      
      William Blount, governor in and over the territory of the United States of America south of the                 
               river Ohio, and superintendent of Indian Affairs for the southern district, [L. S.]     
      
      Chuleoah, or the Boots, his x mark, [L. S.] 
      
      Squollecuttah, or Hanging Maw,  his x mark, [L. S.] 
      
      Occunna, or the Badger, his x mark, [L. S.]      
      
      Enoleh, or Black Fox, his x mark, [L. S.]      
      
      Nontuaka, or the Northward, his x mark,  [L. S.]     
      
      Tekakiska, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Chutloh, or King Fisher, his x mark, [L. S.]      
      
      Tuckaseh, or Terrapin, his x mark, [L. S.]      
      
      Kateh, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Kunnochatutloh, or the Crane, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Cauquillehanah,  or the Thigh, his x mark, [L. S.]      
      
      Chesquotteleneh, or Yellow Bird, his x mark, [L. S.]      
      
      Chickasawtehe, or Chickasaw Killer, his x mark, [L. S.] 
      
      Tuskegatehe, Tuskega Killer, his x mark, [L. S.]      
      
      Kulsatehe, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Tinkshalene, his X mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Sawutteh, or Slave Catcher, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Aukuah, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Oosenaleh, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Kenotetah, or Rising Fawn, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Kanetetoka, or Standing Turkey, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Yonewatleh, or Bear at Home, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Long Will, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Kunoskeskie, or John Watts, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Nenetooyah, or Bloody Fellow, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Chuquilatague, or Double Head, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Koolaquah, or Big Acorn, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Toowayelloh, or Bold Hunter, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Jahleoonoyehka, or Middle Striker, his x mark, [L .S.]    
      
      Kinnesah, or Cabin, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Tullotehe or Two Killer,  his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Kaalouske, or Stopt Still, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Kulsatche, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Auquotague, the Little Turkey's Son, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Talohteske, or Upsetter, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Cheakoneske, or Otter Lifter, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Keshukaune, or She Reigns,  his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Toonaunailoh, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Teesteke, or Common Disturber, his x mark,[L. S.]    
      
      Robin McLemore, [L. S.]    
      
      Skyuka, [L. S.]    
      
      John Thompson, Interpreter.    
      
      James Cery, Interpreter.    
      
      Done in presence of—\
      
      Dan'l Smith, Secretary Territory United States south of the river Ohio.            
      
      Thomas Kennedy, of Kentucky.                
      
      Jas. Robertson, of Mero District.           
      
      Claiborne Watkins, of Virginia.             
      
      Jno. McWhitney, of Georgia.    
      
      Fauche, of Georgia.    
      
      Titus Ogden,  North Carolina.    
      
      Jno. Chisolm, Washington District.    
      
      Robert King.    
      
      Thomas Gegg.    
      
      
         
      
      
      
      
      
      
         Feb. 17, 1792. | 7 Stat., 42. | Proclamation,  Feb. 17, 1792
      
      
      
         Additional  Article To the  Treaty  made  between the United  States and the Cherokees on
            the second day of July, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
         
      
      
      
         It is hereby mutually agreed between  Henry Knox, Secretary of War, duly authorized thereto in 
         behalf of the United States, on the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and  warriors, in 
         behalf of them-
         
      
      
      Page 33
      
      
         selves and the Cherokee nation, on the other part, that the following article shall be added to 
         and considered as part of the treaty made between the United States and the said Cherokee 
         nation on the second day of July, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one; to wit:
         
         The sum to be paid annually by the United States to the Cherokee nation of Indians, in consideration 
         of the relinquishment of land, as stated in the treaty made with them on the second day of July, 
         one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, shall be one thousand five hundred dollars instead 
         of one thousand dollars, mentioned in the said treaty.
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Henry Knox, Secretary of War, and the said chiefs and warriors 
         of the Cherokee nation, have hereunto set their hands and seals, in the city of Philadelphia, 
         this seventeenth day of February, in the year of our Lord, one thousand seven hundred and 
         ninety-two.
      
      
      H. Knox, Secretary of War, [L. S.]    
      
      Iskagua, or Clear Sky, his x mark (formerly Nenetooyah, or Bloody Fellow), [L. S.]    
      
      Nontuaka, or the Northward, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Chutloh, or King Fisher, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Katigoslah, or the Prince, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Teesteke, or Common Disturber, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      Suaka, or George Miller, his x mark, [L. S.]    
      
      In presence of—
      
      Thomas Grooter.    
      
      Jno. Stagg, jr.    
      
      Leonard D. Shaw    
      
      James Cery, sworn intrepreter to the Cherokee Nation.    
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
