
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEE, 1805.
         
         Oct. 27, 1805. | 7 Stat., 95. | Proclamation, June 10, 1806.
         
         Page Images:
            84
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of certain land to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cherokees grant the free use of a road through their country
                           for the carriage of the mail.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment to Cherokees.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty, when to take effect.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      
         Articles of a treaty between the United States of America, by their
            commissioners, Return J. Meigs and Daniel Smith, who are appointed to hold, conferences with 
            the Cherokees for the purpose of arranging certain interesting matters with the said Indians, 
            of the one part, and the undersigned chiefs and head men of the Cherokees, of the other part, 
            concluded at Tellico.
         
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      
         Whereas it has been represented by the one party to the other that the section of 
         land on which the garrison of South West Point stands, and which extends to Kingston, is 
         likely to be a desirable place for the assembly of the state of Tennessee to convene at 
         (a committee from that body now in session having viewed the situation) now the Cherokees 
         being possessed of a spirit of conciliation, and seeing that this tract is desired for public 
         purposes, and not for individual advantages, (reserving the ferries to themselves,) quit claim 
         and cede to the United States the said section of land, understanding at the same time, that 
         the buildings erected by the public are to belong to the public, as well as the occupation of 
         the same, during the pleasure of the government; we also cede to the United States the first 
         island in the Tennessee, above the mouth of Clinch.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      
         And whereas the mail of the United States is ordered to be carried from Knoxville to 
         New-Orleans, through the Cherokee, Creek and Choctaw countries; the Cherokees agree that the 
         citizens of the United States shall have, so far as it goes through their country, the free 
         and unmolested use of a road leading from Tellico to Tombigbe, to be laid out by viewers 
         appointed on both sides, who shall direct it the nearest and best way; and the time of doing 
         the business the Cherokees shall be notified of.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      
         In consideration of the above cession and relinquishment, the United States agree to 
         pay to the said Cherokee Indians sixteen hundred dollars in money, or useful merchandise at 
         their option, within ninety days after the ratification of this treaty.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      
         This treaty shall be obligatory between the contracting parties as soon as it is 
         ratified by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United 
         States. 
         
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said commissioners, and the undersigned chiefs and head men of the
         Cherokees, have hereto set their hands and seals.
         Done at Tellico, this twenty-seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
         eight hundred and five.
      
      
      Return J. Meigs
      
      Danl. Smith.
      
      
      Black Fox, or Ennone, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      The Glass, or Tunnquetihee, his x mark, [L. S.]                  
      
      Kutigeskeee, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Toochalar, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Turtle at Home, or Sullicookiewalar, his x mark, [L. S.]                
      
      Dick Justice, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      John Greenwood, or Eakosettas, his x mark, [L. S.]                 
      
      Chuleah, or Gentleman Tom, his x mark, [L. S.]               
      
      Broom, or Cannarwesoske, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Bald Hunter, or Toowayullau, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      John Melamere, or Euquellooka, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Closenie, or Creeping, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Double Head, or Chuquacuttague, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Chickasawtihee, or Chickasawtihee Killer, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
            Witness:
      
      Robert Purdy, secretary to the commissioners.
      
      William Yates,  B. Com'g.              
      
      Nicholas Byers, United States factor.     
      
      Wm. Lovely, assistant. agent.
      
      B. M'Ghee.
      
      Saml. Love.
      
      James Blair.
      
      Hopkins Lacey.
      
      Chs. Hicks, interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
