
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEE, 1794.
         
         June 26, 1794. | 7 Stat., 43. | Proclamation, Jan. 21, 1795. | Ante, p. 29.
         
         Page Images:
            33 | 34
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty of Holston binding.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Boundaries to be marked.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Annual allowance of goods.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     For every horse stolen, a sum to be deducted from the annuity.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     These articles in addition to the treaty of Holston.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      
         Whereas the treaty made and concluded on Holston river, on the second day of July, one thousand 
         seven hundred and ninety-one, between the United States of America and the Cherokee nation of 
         Indians, has not been fully carried into execution by reason of some misunderstandings which 
         have arisen: 
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      
         
         And whereas the undersigned Henry Knox, Secretary for the department of War, being authorized 
         thereto by the President of the United States, in behalf of the said United States, and the 
         undersigned Chiefs and Warriors, in their own names, and in behalf of the whole Cherokee nation, 
         are desirous of re-establishing peace and friendship between the said parties in a permanent 
         manner, Do hereby declare, that the said treaty of Holston is, to all intents and purposes, in 
         full force and binding upon the said parties, as well in respect to the boundaries therein 
         mentioned as in all other respects whatever.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      
         
         It is hereby stipulated that the boundaries mentioned in the fourth article of the said treaty, 
         shall be actually ascertained and marked in the manner prescribed by the said article, whenever 
         the Cherokee nation shall have ninety days notice of the time and place at which the commissioners 
         of the United States intend to commence their operation. 
         
      
      
      Page 34
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      
         
         The United States, to evince their justice by amply compensating the said Cherokee nation of 
         Indians for all relinquishments of land made either by the treaty of Hopewell upon the Keowee 
         river, concluded on the twenty-eighth of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five, 
         or the aforesaid treaty made upon Holston river, on the second of July, one thousand seven 
         hundred and ninety-one, do hereby stipulate, in lieu of all former sums to be paid annually 
         to furnish the Cherokee Indians with goods suitable for their use, to the amount of five 
         thousand dollars yearly.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      
         
         And the said Cherokee nation, in order to evince the sincerity of their intentions in future, 
         to prevent the practice of stealing horses, attended with the most pernicious consequences to 
         the lives and peace of both parties, do hereby agree, that for every horse which shall be 
         stolen from the white inhabitants by any Cherokee Indians, and not returned within three months, 
         that the sum of fifty dollars shall be deducted from the said annuity of five thousand dollars.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      
         
         The articles now stipulated will be considered as permanent additions to the treaty of Holston, 
         as soon as they shall have been ratified by the President of the United States and the Senate of 
         the United States.
         
      
      
      
      
      In witness of all and every thing herein determined between the United States of America and the
         whole Cherokee nation, the parties have hereunto set their hands and seals in the city of Philadelphia, 
         within the United States, this twenty-sixth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
         seven hundred and ninety-four.
      
      
      H. Knox, Secretary of War, [L. S.]   
      
      Tekakisskee, or Taken out of the Water, his x mark, [L. S. ]            
      
      Nontuaka, or the Northward, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Cinasaw, or the Cabin, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Skyuka, his x mark, [L. S ]   
      
      Chuquilatague, or Double Head,  his x mark, [L. S.]              
      
      John McCleemore, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Walahue or the Humming Bird, [L .S.]
      
      Chuleowee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Ustanaqua, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Kullusathee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Siteaha, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Keenaguna, or the Lying Fawn, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Chatakaelesa, or the Fowl Carrier, [L. S.]
      
      Done in presence of—
      
      John Thompson,      
      
      Arthur Coodey, Interpreters,    
      
      Cantwell Jones, of Delaware.    
      
      William Wofford, of the State of Georgia.
      
      W. McCaleb, of South Carolina.
      
      Samuel Lewis, of Philadelphia.   
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
