
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEE, 1806.
         
         Jan. 7, 1806 | 7 Stat., 101. | Ratified May 22, 1807. | Proclaimed May 23, 1807.
         
         Page Images:
            90 | 91 | 92
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of territory.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment to Cherokees.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to use their influence with the Chickasaws in reference to a certain boundary.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Further agreement
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Elucidation
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Eastern limits of the tract granted by the treaty of Jan. 7, 1806.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
         A convention between the United States and the Cherokee nation of
            Indians, concluded at the city of Washington, on the seventh day of  
            January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and six.
         
      
      
      
         ARTICLES of a Convention made between Henry Dearborn, secretary  
         of war, being specially authorized thereto by the president of the United  
         States, and the undersigned chiefs and head men of the Cherokee 
         nation of Indians, duly authorized and empowered by said nation.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      
         
         The undersigned chiefs and head men of the Cherokee nation of Indians, for themselves and in behalf of their nation, relinquish
         to the United States all right, title, interest and claim, which they or their nation have or ever had to all that tract of
         country which lies to the northward of the river Tennessee and westward of a line to be run from the upper part of the Chickasaw
         Old Fields, at the upper point of an island, called Chickasaw island, on said river, to the most easterly head waters of that
         branch of said Tennessee river called Duck river, excepting the two following described tracts, viz. one tract bounded southerly
         on the said Tennessee river, at a place called the Muscle Shoals, westerly by a creek called Te Kee, ta, no-eh or Cyprus creek,
         and easterly by Chu, wa, lee, or Elk river or creek, and northerly by a line to be drawn from a point on said Elk river ten
         miles on a direct line from its mouth or Junction with Tennessee river, to a point on the said Cyprus Creek, ten miles on
         a direct line from its junction with the Tennessee river.
         The other tract is to be two miles in width on the north side of Tennessee river, and to extend northerly from that river
         three miles, and bounded as follows, viz. beginning at the mouth of Spring Creek, and running up said creek three miles on
         a straight line, thence westerly two miles at right angles with the general course of said creek, thence southerly on a line
         parallel with the general course of said creek to the Tennessee river, thence up said river by its waters to the beginning:
         which first reserved tract is to be considered the common property of the Cherokees who now live on the same; including John
         D. Chesholm, Au, tow, we and Cheh Chuh, and the other reserved tract on which Moses Melton now lives, is to be considered
         the property of said Melton and of Charles Hicks, in equal shares.
         And the said chiefs and head men also agree to relinquish to the United  
         States all right or claim which they or their nation have to what is called  
         the Long Island in Holston river.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      
         
         The said Henry Dearborn on the part of the United States hereby  stipulates and agrees 
         that in consideration of the relinquishment of title by the 
         Cherokees, as stated in the preceding article, the United States will  pay to 
         the Cherokee nation two thousand dollars in money as soon 
         
      
      
      Page 91
      
      
         as this convention shall be duly ratified by the government of the United  
         States; and two thousand dollars in each of the four succeeding years,  
         amounting in the whole to ten thousand dollars; and that a grist mill shall  
         within one year from the date hereof, be built in the Cherokee country, for  
         the use of the nation, at such place as shall be considered most  
         convenient; that the said Cherokees shall be furnished with a machine for  
         cleaning cotton; and also, that the old Cherokee chief, called the Black  
         Fox, shall be paid annually one hundred dollars by the United States during  
         his life.
         
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      
         
         It is also agreed on the part of the United States, that the government  
         thereof will use its influence and best endeavors to prevail on the   
         Chickasaw nation of Indians to agree to the following boundary between  that  
         nation and the Cherokees to the southward of the Tennessee river, viz.  
         beginning at the mouth of Caney Creek near the lower part of the Muscle  
         Shoals, and to run up said creek to its head, and in a direct line from thence  
         to the Flat Stone or Rock, the old corner boundary.
         But it is understood by the contracting parties that the United States do  
         not engage to have the aforesaid line or boundary established, but only to  
         endeavor to prevail on the Chickasaw nation to consent to such a line as  
         the boundary beween the two nations.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      
         
         It is further agreed on the part of the United States that the claims which the Chickasaws 
         may have to the two tracts reserved by the first article of  this convention on the north side 
         of the Tennessee river, shall be settled by the United States in such manner as will be 
         equitable, and will secure to the Cherokees the title to the said reservations.
         
      
      
      
      
      Done at the place, and on the day and year first above written.
      
      Henry Dearborn, [L. S.]  
      
      Double Head, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      James Vanu, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Tallotiskee, his x mark, [L. S.]  
      
      Chulioa, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Sour Mush, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Turtle at home, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Katihu, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      John McLemore, his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Broom, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      John Jolly, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      John Lowry, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Red Bird, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      John Walker, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Young Wolf, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Skeuha, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Sequechu, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Wm. Showry, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      In presence of—
      
      Return J. Meigs,  
      
      Benjamin Hawkins,  
      
      Daniel Smith,  
      
      John Smith,  
      
      Andrew McClary,  
      
      John McClarey. 
      
      I certify the foregoing convention has been faithfully interpreted. 
      
      Charles Hicks, Interpreter.
      
      
         
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         Elucidation of a convention with the Cherokee Nation.Sept. 11, 1807. | 7 Stat., 103. | Proclamation, Apr. 22, 1808. | Proclaimed May 23, 1807.
         
      
      
      
         WHEREAS, by the first article of a convention between the United   States and the Cherokee 
         nation, entered into at the city of Washington, on  the seventh day of January, one thousand 
         eight hundred and six, it was  intended on the part of the Cherokee nation, and so understood 
         by the  Secretary of War, the commissioner on the part of the United States, to  cede to the 
         United States all the right, title and  
         
      
      
      Page 92
      
      
         interest which the said Cherokee nation ever had to a tract of country 
         contained between the Tennessee river and the Tennessee ridge (so called); 
         which tract of country had since the year one thousand seven hundred and 
         ninety four, been claimed by the Cherokees and Chickasaws: the eastern 
         boundary whereof is limited by a line so to be run from the upper part of the 
         Chickasaw Old Fields, as to include all the waters of Elk river, any thing 
         expressed in said convention to the contrary notwithstanding. It is therefore 
         now declared by James Robertson and Return J. Meigs, acting under the 
         authority of the executive of the United States, and by a delegation of 
         Cherokee chiefs, of whom Eunolee or Black Fox, the king or head chief of 
         said Cherokee nation, acting on the part of, and in behalf of said nation, is 
         
         one, that the eastern limits of said ceded tract shall be bounded by a line 
         so to be run from the upper end of the Chickasaw Old Fields, a little above 
         the upper point of an island, called Chickasaw Island, as will most directly 
         intersect the first waters of Elk river, thence carried to the Great 
         Cumberland mountain, in which the waters of Elk river have their source, 
         then along the margin of said mountain until it shall intersect lands 
         heretofore ceded to the United States, at the said Tennessee ridge. And in 
         consideration of the readiness shown by the Cherokees to explain, and to 
         place the limits of the land ceded by the said convention out of all doubt; 
         and in consideration of their expenses in attending council, the executive of 
         the United States will direct that the Cherokee nation shall receive the sum 
         of two thousand dollars, to be paid to them by their agent, at such time as 
         the said executive shall direct, and that the Cherokee hunters' as hath been 
         the custom in such cases, may hunt on said ceded tract, until by the fullness 
         of settlers it shall become improper. And it is hereby declared by the 
         parties, that this explanation ought to be considered as a just elucidation of 
         the cession made by the first article of said convention.
         
      
      
      
      Done at the point of departure of the line at the upper end of the island
         opposite to the upper part of the said Chickasaw Oil Fields, the eleventh 
         day of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred and seven.
      
      
      James Robertson,
      
      Return J. Meigs, 
      
      Eunolee, or Black Fox, his x mark, 
      
      Fauquitee, or Glass, his x mark,
      
      Fulaquokoko, or Turtle at home, his x mark, 
      
      Richard Brown, his x mark,
      
      Sowolotoh, king's brother, his x mark.
      
      Witnesses present: 
      
      Thomas Freeman, 
      
      Thomas Orme. 
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
