
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEE, 1785.
         
         Nov. 28, 1785. | 7 Stat., 18.
         
         Page Images:
            8 | 9 | 10 | 11
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to restore all prisoners, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to restore all prisoners.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cherokees acknowledge protection of United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Boundaries.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     No citizens of United States to settle on Indian lands.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to deliver up criminals.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Citizens of United States committing crimes against Indians to be punished.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Retaliation prohibited.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to regulate trade.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Special provision for trade.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to give notice of designs against United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians may send deputy to Congress.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Peace and friendship perpetual.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      
         Articles concluded at Hopewell, on the Keowee, between Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens,
            Joseph Martin, and Lachlan M'Intosh, Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States of 
            America, of the one Part, and the Head-Men  and Warriors of all the Cherokees of the other.
         
      
      
      
      
         The Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States, in Congress
         assembled, give peace to all the Cherokees, and receive them into the
         favor and protection of the United States of America, on the following
         conditions:
         
      
      
      
      Page 9
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      
         The Head-Men and Warriors of all the Cherokees shall restore all the prisoners, citizens of 
         the United States, or subjects of their allies, to their entire liberty: They shall also 
         restore all the Negroes, and all other  property taken during the late war from the citizens, 
         to such person, and at  such time and place, as the Commissioners shall appoint.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      
         The Commissioners of the United States in Congress assembled, shall restore all the prisoners 
         taken from the Indians, during the late war, to the  Head-Men and Warriors of the Cherokees, 
         as early as is practicable.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      
         
         The said Indians for themselves and their respective tribes and towns do acknowledge all the 
         Cherokees to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign 
         whosoever.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      
         
         The boundary allotted to the Cherokees for their hunting grounds, between the said Indians and the citizens of the United
         States, within the  limits of the United States of America, is, and shall be the following, viz.  Beginning at the mouth of
         Duck river, on the Tennessee; thence running  north-east to the ridge dividing the waters running into Cumberland from  those
         running into the Tennessee; thence eastwardly along the said ridge  to a north-east line to be run, which shall strike the
         river Cumberland forty  miles above Nashville; thence along the said line to the river; thence up  the said river to the ford
         where the Kentucky road crosses the river;  thence to Campbell's line, near Cumberland gap; thence to the mouth of  Claud's
         creek on Holstein; thence to the Chimney-top mountain; thence to  Camp-creek, near the mouth of Big Limestone, on Nolichuckey;
         thence a  southerly course six miles to a mountain; thence south to the  North-Carolina line; thence to the South-Carolina
         Indian boundary, and  along the same south-west over the top of the Oconee mountain till it  shall strike Tugaloo river; 
         thence a direct line to the top of the Currohee  mountain; thence to the head of the south fork 
         of Oconee river.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      
         
         If any citizen of the United States, or other person not being an Indian,  shall attempt to 
         settle on any of the lands westward or southward of the  said boundary which are hereby allotted 
         to the Indians for their hunting  grounds, or having already settled and will not remove from 
         the same  within six months after the ratification of this treaty, such person shall  forfeit 
         the protection of the United States, and the Indians may punish him  or not as they please: 
         Provided nevertheless, That this article shall not  extend to the people settled between the 
         fork of French Broad and  Holstein rivers, whose particular situation shall be transmitted to 
         the  United States in Congress assembled for their decision thereon, which the  Indians agree 
         to abide by.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      
         
         If any Indian or Indians, or person residing among them, or who shall  take refuge in their 
         nation, shall commit a robbery, or murder, or other capital crime, on any citizen of the 
         United States, or person 
         
      
      
      Page 10
      
      
         under their protection, the nation, or the tribe 
         to which such offender or offenders may belong, shall be bound to deliver him or them up to be 
         punished according to the ordinances of the United States; Provided, that the punishment shall 
         not be greater than if the robbery or murder, or other capital crime had been committed by a 
         citizen on a citizen.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 7.
      
      
         
         If any citizen of the United States, or person under their protection, shall commit a robbery 
         or murder, or other capital crime, on any Indian, such offender or offenders shall be punished 
         in the same manner as if the murder or robbery, or other capital crime, had been committed on 
         a citizen of the United States; and the punishment shall be in presence of some of the Cherokees, 
         if any shall attend at the time and place, and that they may have an opportunity so to do, due 
         notice of the time of such intended punishment shall be sent to some one of the tribes.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 8.
      
      
         
         It is understood that the punishment of the innocent under the idea of retaliation, is unjust, 
         and shall not be practiced on either side, except where there is a manifest violation of this 
         treaty; and then it shall be preceded first by a demand of justice, and if refused, then by a 
         declaration of hostilities.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 9.
      
      
         
         For the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention of injuries or oppressions 
         on the part of the citizens or Indians, the United States in Congress assembled shall have the 
         sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and managing all their affairs 
         in such manner as they think proper.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 10.
      
      
         
         Until the pleasure of Congress be known, respecting the ninth article, all traders, citizens 
         of the United States, shall have liberty to go to any of the tribes or towns of the Cherokees 
         to trade with them, and they shall be protected in their persons and property, and kindly 
         treated.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 11.
      
      
         
         The said Indians shall give notice to the citizens of the United States, of any designs which 
         they may know or suspect to be formed in any neighboring tribe, or by any person whosoever, 
         against the peace, trade or interest of the United States.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 12.
      
      
         
         That the Indians may have full confidence in the justice of the United States, respecting 
         their interests, they shall have the right to send a deputy of their choice, whenever they 
         think fit, to Congress.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 13.
      
      
         
         The hatchet shall be forever buried, and the peace given by the United States, and friendship 
         re-established between the said states on the one part, and all the Cherokees on the other, 
         shall be universal;
         
      
      
      Page 11
      
      
         and the contracting parties shall use their utmost endeavors to maintain 
         the peace given as aforesaid, and friendship re-established.
         
      
      
      
      
      In witness of all and every thing herein determined, between the
         United States of America and all the Cherokees, we, their underwritten 
         Commissioners, by virtue of our full powers, have signed this
         definitive treaty, and have caused our seals to be hereunto affixed.
         Done at Hopewell, on the Keowee, this twenty-eighth of November,
         in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-five.
      
      
      Benjamin Hawkins, [L. S.]
      
      And'w Pickens, [L. S.]   
      
      Jos. Martin, [L. S.]
      
      Lach'n McIntosh Koatohee, or Corn Tassel of Toquo,  his x mark, [L. S.]   
      
      Scholauetta, or Hanging Man of  Chota, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tuskegatahu, or Long Fellow of Chistohoe, his x mark, [L. S.]            
      
      Ooskwha, or Abraham of Chilkowa, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Kolakusta, or Prince of Noth, his x  mark, [L. S.]       
      
      Newota, or the Gritzs of Chicamaga, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Konatota, or the Rising Fawn of Highwassay, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tuckasee, or Young Terrapin of Allajoy, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Toostaka, or the Waker of Oostanawa, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Untoola, or Gun Rod of Seteco, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Unsuokanail, Buffalo White Calf New Cussee, his x mark, [L. S.] 
      
      Kostayeak, or Sharp Fellow Wataga, his x mark, [L. S.] 
      
      Chonosta, of Cowe, his x mark, [L. S.] 
      
      Chescoonwho, Bird in Close of Tomotlug, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Tuckasee, or Terrapin of Hightowa, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
       Chesetoa, or the Rabbit of Tlacoa, his x mark, [L. S.]     
      
      Chesecotetona, or Yellow Bird of the Pine Log, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Sketaloska,  Second Man of Tillico, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Chokasatahe, Chickasaw Killer Tasonta, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Onanoota, of Koosoate, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Ookoseta, or Sower Mush of Kooloque, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Umatooetha, the Water Hunter Choikamawga, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Wyuka, of Lookout Mountain, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tulco, or Tom of Chatuga, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Will, of Akoha, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Necatee, of Sawta, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Amokontakona, Kutcloa, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Kowetatahee, in Frog Town, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Keukuck, Talcoa, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tulatiska, of Chaway, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Wooaluka, the Waylayer, Chota, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tatliusta, or Porpoise of Tilassi, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      John, of Little Tallico, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Skeleak, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Akonoluchta, the Cabin, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Cheanoka, of Kawetakac, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Yellow Bird, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Witness:
      
      Wm. Blount,   
      
      Sam'l Taylor, Major.,
      
      John Owen,  
      
      Jess. Walton, 
      
      Jno. Cowan, capt. comm'd't, 
      
      Thos. Gregg,
      
      W. Hazzard.
      
      James Madison,
      
      Arthur Cooley,.
      
      Sworn interpreters.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
