
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEE, 1804.
         
         Oct. 24, 1804. | 7 Stat., 288. | Proclamation, May 17, 1824.
         
         Page Images:
            73 | 74
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of land by Cherokes.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Useful goods to amount of $5,000 to be paid them as an annuity.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Articles of a treaty between the United States of America and the Cherokee Indians.
      
      
      DANIEL SMITH and Return J. Meigs, being commissioned by Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States, with powers of acting
         in behalf of the said United States in arranging certain matters with the Cherokee nation of Indians; and the underwritten
         principal Chiefs, representing the said nation; having met the said Commissioners in a conference at Tellico, and having taken
         into their consideration certain propositions made to them by the said Commissioners of the United States; the parties aforesaid,
         have unanimously agreed and stipulated, as is definitely expressed in the following articles:
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      For the considerations hereinafter expressed, the Cherokee nation relinquish and cede to the United States, a tract of land bounding, southerly, on the boundary line between the State of Georgia and the
         said Cherokee nation, beginning at a point on the said boundary line northeasterly of the most northeast planatation, in the
         settlement known by the name of Wafford's Settlement, and running at right angles with the said boundary line four miles into
         the Cherokee land; thence at right angles southwesterly and parallel to the first mentioned boundary line, so far as that
         a line, to be run at right angles southerly to the said first mentioned boundary line, shall include, in this cession, all
         the plantations in Wafford's settlement, so called, as aforesaid.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      For, and in consideration of, the relinquishment and cession, as expressed in the first article, the United States, upon signing
         the present Treaty, shall cause to be delivered to the Cherokees, useful goods, wares, and merchandise, to the amount of the five thousand dollars, or that sum in money, at the option (timely
         signified) of the
      
      
      Page 74
      
      
         Cherokees, and shall, also, cause to be delivered, annually, to them, other useful goods to the amount of one thousand dollars,
         or money to that amount, at the option of the Cherokees, timely notice thereof being given, in addition to the annuity, heretofore
         stipulated, and to be delivered at the usual time of their receiving their annuity.
         
      
      
      
      
      In witness of all and everything, herein determined, between the United States and the Cherokee nation, the parties have hereunto
         set their hands and seals, in the garrison of Tellico, on Cherokee ground, within the United States, this twenty-fourth day
         of October, in the year one thousand eight hundred and four, and in the twenty-ninth year of the independence and sovereignty
         of the United States.
      
      
      Daniel Smith, [L. S.]
      
      Return J. Meigs, [L. S.]
      
      Tolluntuskie, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Broom, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      J. McLamore, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Quotequeskee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Path Killer, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tagustiskee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tulio, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Sour Much, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Keatechee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      James Vann. [L. S.]
      
      Witnesses:
      
      Rob. Purdy, secretary,
      
      John McKee,
      
      Jno. Campbell, captain, second U. S. Regiment, Com.,
      
      John Brahan, lieutenant, second Regiment, infantry,
      
      Thos, J. Van Dyke, Sur. Mate.,
      
      Wm. Charp,
      
      Hinchey Pettway,
      
      Wm.L. Lovely, assistant agent,
      
      Ch. Hicks, interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
