
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         AGREEMENT WITH THE CHEROKEE AND OTHER TRIBES IN THE INDIAN TERRITORY, 1865.
         
         Sept. 13, 1865. | Unratified.See note, post 1051, ante p. 910, 931.For the proceedings relative to the negotiation of this agreement, see Ann. Rep. Commr. Ind. Aff., 1865, pp. 34, 312-353.Also House Ex. Doc. No. 1, 1st sess. 39th Cong., vol. 2, 1865-66, pp. 480 to 542.
         
         
         Page Images:
            1050 | 1051 | 1052
         
      
      
      Page 1050
      
      Articles of agreement entered into this thirteenth day of September, 1865, between the commissioners designated by the President
            of the United States and the persons here present representing or connected with the following named nations and tribes of
            Indians located within the Indian country, viz: Cherokees, Creeks, Choctaws, Chickasaws, Osages, Seminoles, Senecas, Senecas
            and Shawnees, and Quapaws.
      
      Whereas the aforesaid nations and tribes, or bands of Indians, or portions thereof, were induced by the machinations of the
         emissaries of the so-called Confederate States to throw off their allegiance to the government of the United States, and to
         enter into treaty stipulations with said so-called Confederate States, whereby they have made themselves liable to a forfeiture
         of all rights of every kind, character, and description which had been promised and guaranteed to them by the United States;
         and whereas the government of the United States has maintained its supremacy and authority within its limits; and whereas
         it is the desire of the government to act with magnanimity with all parties deserving its clemency, and to re-establish order
         and legitimate authority among the Indian tribes; and whereas the undersigned representatives or parties connected with said
         nations or tribes of Indians have become satisfied that it is for the general good of the people to reunite with and be restored
         to the relations which formerly existed between them and the United States, and as indicative of our personal feelings in
         the premises, and of our several nations and tribes, so far as we are authorized and empowered to speak for them; and whereas
         questions have arisen as to the status of the nations, tribes, and bands that have made treaties with the enemies of the United
         States, which are now being discussed, and our relations settled by treaty with the United States commissioners now at Fort
         Smith for that purpose:
      
      
      The undersigned do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and covenant
         and agree, that hereafter they will in all things recognize the government of the United States as exercising exclusive jurisdiction
         over them, and will not enter into any allegiance or conventional arrangement with any state, nation, power or sovereign whatsoever;
         that any treaty of alliance for cession of land, or any act heretofore done by them, or any of their people, by which they
         renounce their allegiance to the United States, is hereby revoked, cancelled, and repudiated.
      
      
      In consideration of the foregoing stipulations, made by the members of the respective nations and tribes of Indians present,
         the United States, through its commissioners, promises that it will re-establish peace and friendship with all the nations
         and tribes of Indians within the limits of the so-called Indian country; that it will afford ample protection for the security
         of the persons and property of the respective
      
      
      Page 1051
      
      nations or tribes, and declares its willingness to enter into treaties to arrange and settle all questions relating to and
         growing out of former treaties with said nations, as affected by any treaty made by said nations with the so-called Confederate
         States, at this council now convened for that purpose, or at such time in the future as may be appointed.*
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said commissioners on the part of the United States, and the said Indians of the several nations
         and tribes, as respectively hereafter enumerated, have hereunto subscribed their names, and affixed their seals, on the day
         and year first above written.
      
      
      (Note.—This treaty is presumed to have been signed, as indicated by the report of the proceedings at Fort Smith, by the commissioners
         of the United States and the delegations of Indians represented in the Council. Their names follow:)
      
      
      Hon. D. N. Cooley, president,
      
      Hon. Elijah Sells,
      
      Thomas Wistar,
      
      Brig. Gen. W. S. Harney, U. S. Army,
      
      Col. Ely S. Parker,
      
          Commissioners.
      
      Charles E. Mix,
      
      George L. Cook,
      
      W. R. Irwin,
      
      John B. Garrett,
      
          Secretaries.
      
          Creeks:
      
      Ock-tar-sars-ha-jo, head chief.
      
      Mik-ko-hut-kee, little white chief.
      
      Cow-we-ta-milk-ko.
      
      Cah-cho-she.
      
      Thlo-cos-ya-lo.
      
      Loch-er-ha-jo.
      
      Co-me-ha-jo.
      
      Tul-wah-mik-ko-che.
      
      Tul-wah-mik-ko.
      
      David Grayson.
      
      David Field.
      
      Tuka-basha-ha-jo.
      
      Captain Johnneh.
      
      Cap-tah-ka-na.
      
      Passa.
      
      Sa-to-wee.
      
      Co-lo-ma-ha-jo.
      
      Tul-me-mek-ko.
      
      Me-lo-tah-mo-ne, “Twelve o'clock.”
      
      Ko-she-ce-gla.
      
      Ge-ne-o-ne-gla, (brave,) “Catch Alive.”
      
      Mah-ha-ah-ba-so, (brave,) “Sky-reaching man.”
      
      Shar-ba-no-sha, (brave,) “Done brown.”
      
          Interpreters:
      
      Alexander Bayette.
      
      Augustus Captain.
      
          Cowskin Senecas:
      
      Isaac Warrior, chief.
      
          Senecas and Shawnees:
      
      Lewis Davis, chief.
      
      A. McDonald.
      
      Goodhunt.
      
      Jas. Tallchief.
      
      Lewis Denny.
      
          Interpreter, Lewis Davis.
      
          Cherokees:
      
      Kah-sah-nie, Smith Christie.
      
      Ah-yes-takie, Thomas Pegg.
      
      Oo-nee-na-kah-ah-nah-ee, White Catcher.
      
      Cha-loo-kie, Fox Flute.
      
      Da-wee-oo-sal-chut-tee, David Rowe.
      
      Ah-tah-lah-ka-no-skee-skee, Nathan Fish.
      
      Koo-nah-vah, W. B. Downing.
      
      Ta-la-la.
      
      Oo-too-lah, ta-neh, Charles Conrad.
      
      Oo-la-what-tee, Samuel Smith.
      
      Tah-skee-kee-tee-hee, Jesse Baldridge.
      
      Suu-kee, Mink Downing.
      
      Chee-chee.
      
      Tee-coo-le-to-ske, H. D. Reese.
      
      Colonel Lewis Downing, acting and assistant principal chief.
      
          Seminoles:
      
      John Shup-co.
      
      Pascofa.
      
      Fo-hut-she.
      
      Fos-har-go.
      
      Chut-cote-har-go.
      
          Interpreters: Robert Johnson, Cesar Bruner.
      
      
      
         *This document is claimed by the Indian Office not to be a treaty, but simply an agreement which formed the bases for the treaty
               with the Seminole of May 21, 1866, (ante p. 910) and of the treaty with the Creeks of June 14, 1866, (ante p. 931). It is
               not on file in the Indian Office and is found only in the Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for 1865.
               In the Seminole and Creek treaties mention is made of the treaty of peace and amity at Fort Smith September 10, 1865. This
               date is evidently erroneous, as no treaty was made at Fort Smith on that date. The agreement of September 13, 1865, must have
               been the one referred to.
               As to the signatories of the agreement the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, in his annual report for 1865, page 35, says:
               “All of the delegates representing the following tribes and sections of tribes, in the order given, had signed treaties, (some
               of them holding out for several days until they could agree among themselves:) Senecas, Senecas and Shawnees, Quapaws, loyal
               Seminoles, loyal Chickasaws, loyal Creeks, Kansas, Shawnees (uncalled for, but asking to be permitted again to testify their
               allegiance,) loyal Osages, tribes of the Wichita agency, loyal Cherokees, disloyal Seminoles, disloyal Creeks, disloyal Cherokees,
               disloyal Osages, Comanches, disloyal Choctaws, and Chickasaws.
               “Friendly relations were established between the members of the various tribes hitherto at variance, except in the case of
               the Cherokees. The ancient feuds among this people are remembered still.”
               For the full proceedings at Fort Smith see Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for 1865, pp. 312-353.
      
      
      Page 1052
      
      Jacob Conal.
      
      David Berryhill.
      
      Sanford Berryman.
      
      Co-nip Fix-i-co, and others.
      
      Wm. F. Brown, clerk.
      
      Harry Island, interpreter for Creeks.
      
      John Marshal, interpreter for Euchees.
      
          Delegates for the black population living among the Creeks and Euchees:
      
      Ketch Barnett.
      
      John McIntosh.
      
      Scipio Barnett.
      
      Jack Brown.
      
      Cow Tom.
      
          Osages:
      
      White Hair, principal chief.
      
      Po-ne-no-pah-she, second chief Big Hill band.
      
      Wah-dah-ne-gah, counsellor.
      
          Shawnees:
      
      Charles Blue Jacket, first chief.
      
      Graham Rogers, second chief.
      
      Moses Silverheels.
      
      Solomon Madden.
      
      Eli Blackhoof.
      
          Interpreter, Matthew King.
      
          Wyandotts:
      
      Silas Armstrong, first chief.
      
      Matthew Mud-eater, second chief.
      
          Quapaws:
      
      George Wa-te-sha.
      
      Ca-ha-she-ka.
      
      Wa-she-hon-ca.
      
      S. G. Valier, interpreter.
      
          Chickasaws:
      
      Et Tor Lutkee,
      
      Louis Johnson,
      
      Esh Ma Tubba,
      
      A. G. Griffith,
      
      Maharda Colbert, headmen.
      
      Frazier McCrean.
      
      Benjamin Colbert.
      
      Ed Colbert.
      
      —Jackson.
      
      Jim Doctor.
      
      Simpson Killcrease.
      
      A. B. Johnson.
      
      —Corman.
      
      George Jhonson.
      
      —Wolburn.
      
          Choctaws:
      
      William S. Patton.
      
      Robert B. Patton.
      
      A. J. Stanton.
      
      Jeremiah Ward.
      
          Indian agents:
      
      Major G. C. Snow, for Osages.
      
      George A. Reynolds, for Seminoles.
      
      Isaac Coleman, for Choctaws and Chickassaws.
      
      Justin Harlan, for Cherokees.
      
      J. W. Dunn, for Creeks.
      
      Milo Gookins, for Wichitas.
      
      J. B. Abbott, for Shawnees.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
