
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE OTTAWA AND CHIPPEWA, 1820.
         
         July 6, 1820. | 7 Stat., 207. | Proclamation, Mar. 8, 1821.
         
         Page Images:
            188 | 189
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     St. Martin Islands ceded to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Goods in full satisfaction to the Indians.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 188
      
      
      Articles of a treaty, made and concluded at L'Arbre Croche and Michilimackinac, in the territory of Michigan, between the
            United States of America, by their Commissioner Lewis Cass, and the Ottawa and Chippewa nations of Indians.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The Ottawa and Chippewa nations of Indians cede to the United States the Saint Martin Islands in Lake Huron, containing plaster of Paris, and to be located under the direction of the United States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The Ottawa and Chippewa nations of Indians acknowledge to have this day received a quantity of goods in full satisfaction of the above cession.
      
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      This treaty shall be obligatory on the contracting parties after the same shall be ratified by the President of the United States,
         by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors of the Ottawa and Chippewa
         nations of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at Michilimackinac and L'Arbre Croche, in the territory of Michigan, this
         6th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty.
      
      
      Lewis Cass.
      
      Skahjenini, his x mark,
      
      Pahquesegun, or Smoking Weed, his x
               mark,
      
      Chemogueman, or Big Knife, his x mark,
      
      Misesonguay, his x mark,
      
      Papametaby, his x mark,
      
      Ceitawa, his x mark,
      Page 189
      
      Shawanoe, his x mark,
      
      Oninjuega, or Wing, Ottawa chief, his x
               mark,
      
      Cuddimalmese, or Black Hawk, Ottawa
               chief, his mark,
      
      Dionesau, his x mark,
      
      Kojenoikoose, or Long, his x mark,
      
         Ottawa chiefs.
      
      Kenojekum, or Pike, his x mark,
      
      Cachetokee, his x mark,
      
      Gimoewon, or Rain, his x mark,
      
      Chiboisquisegun, or Big Gun, his x mark,
      
      Skubinesse, or Red Bird, his x mark,
      
      Weashe, his x mark,
      
      Nebaguam, his x mark,
      
      Ainse, his x mark,
      
      Shaganash, or Englishman, his x mark,
      
        Chippewa chiefs.
      
      Witnesses present:
      
      Jed. Morse, D. D.
      
      Gilbert Knapp,
      
      Richard C. Morse,
      
      H. G. Gravenant, sworn interpreter,
      
      George Boyd, Indian agent.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
