
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAW, 1805.
         
         Nov. 16, 1805. | 7 Stat., 98. | Proclamation, Feb. 25, 1808.
         
         Page Images:
            87 | 88
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Reservation.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Consideration.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment to certain Indians for past services.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Claim of John M'Grew.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Boundaries.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     A certain former grant confirmed.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     When to take effect.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 87
      
      
         A Treaty of Limits between the United States of America and the Chaktaw [sic] 
            nation of Indians.
         
      
      
      
         THOMAS JEFFERSON, President of the United States of America, by James  Robertson, of Tennessee, 
         and Silas Dinsmoor, of New Hampshire, agent of the  United States to the Chaktaws, commissioners 
         plenipotentiary of the United States, on the one part, and the Mingoes, Chiefs and warriors of 
         the Chaktaw nation of Indians, in council assembled, on the other part, have entered into the 
         following  agreement, viz: 
         
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      
          The Mingoes, chiefs and warriors of the Choctaw nation of  Indians in behalf of 
         themselves, and the said nation, do by these presents cede to the United States of America, 
         all the lands to which they now have or ever had  claim, lying to the right of the following 
         lines, to say. Beginning at a branch of the Humacheeto where the same is intersected by the 
         present Choctaw boundary, and  also by the path leading from Natchez to the county of Washington, 
         usually called  M'Clarey's path, thence eastwardly along M'Clarey's path, to the east or left 
         bank of Pearl river thence on such a direct line as would touch the lower end of a bluff on 
         the left bank of Chickasawhay river the first above the Hiyoowannee towns, called Broken Bluff, 
         to a point within four miles of the Broken Bluff, thence in a direct line nearly parallel with 
         the river to a point whence an east line of four miles in length will intersect the river 
         below the lowest settlement at present occupied and improved in the Hiyoowannee town, thence 
         still east four miles, thence in a direct  line nearly parallel with the river to a point on 
         a line to be run from the lower end of the Broken Bluff to Faluktabunnee on the Tombigbee river 
         four miles from the Broken Bluff, thence along the said line to Faluktabunnee, thence east to 
         the  boundary between the Creeks and Choctaws on the ridge dividing the waters  running into the 
         Alabama from those running into Tombigbee, thence southwardly  along the said ridge and boundary 
         to the southern point of the Choctaw claim. Reserving a tract of two 
         miles square run on meridians and parallels so as to  include the houses and improvements in 
         the town of Fuketcheepoonta, and reserving also a tract of five thousand one hundred and twenty 
         acres, beginning at  a post on the left bank of Tombigbee river opposite the lower end of 
         Hatchatigbee  Bluff, thence ascending the river four miles front and two back one half, for 
         the use  of Alzira, the other half for the use of Sophia, daughters of Samuel Mitchell, by 
         Molly, a Choctaw woman. The latter reserve to be subject to the same laws and  regulations as 
         may be established in the circumjacent country; and the said Mingoes  of the Choctaws, request 
         that the government of the United States may confirm the title of this reserve in the said 
         Alzira and Sophia.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      
         For and in consideration of the foregoing cession on the part of the Choctaw nation, 
         and in full satisfaction for the same, the commissioners of the  United States, do hereby 
         covenant, and agree with the said nation in behalf of the  United States, that the said States 
         shall pay to the said nation fifty thousand five hundred dollars, for the following purposes, 
         to wit:
         
         Forty eight thousand dollars to enable the Mingoes to discharge the debt due to their merchants 
         and traders; and also to pay for the depredations committed on  stock, and other property by 
         evil disposed persons of the said Choctaw nation;  two thousand five hundred dollars to be 
         paid to John Pitchlynn, to compensate him  for certain losses sustained in the Choctaw country, 
         and as a grateful  testimonial of the nation's esteem. And the said States shall also pay annually 
         to the  said Choctaws, for the use of the nation, three thousand dollars in such goods (at 
         neat cost of Philadelphia) as the Mingoes may choose, they giving at least one year's notice 
         of such choice. 
         
      
      
      Page 88
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      
         The commissioners of the United States, on the part of the 
         said States, engage to give to each of the three great Medal Mingoes, 
         Pukshunubbee-Mingo, Hoomastubbee, and Pooshamattaha, five hundred 
         dollars in consideration of past services in their nation, and also to pay to 
         each of them an annuity of one hundred and fifty dollars during their 
         continuance in office. It is perfectly understood, that neither of those 
         great Medal Mingoes is to share any part of the general annuity of the 
         nation.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      
          The Mingoes, chiefs, and warriors of the Choctaws, certify 
         that a tract of land not exceeding fifteen hundred acres, situated between 
         the Tombigbee river and Jackson's creek, the front or river line extending 
         down the river from a blazed white oak standing on the left bank of the 
         Tombigbee near the head of the shoal, next above Hobukentoopa, and 
         claimed by John M'Grew was in fact granted to the said M'Grew by 
         Opiomingo Hesnitta, and others, many years ago, and they respectfully 
         request the government of the United States to establish the claim of the 
         said M'Grew to the said fifteen hundred acres.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      
         The two contracting parties covenant and agree that the 
         boundary as described in the second [first] article shall be ascertained and 
         plainly marked, in such way and manner as the President of the United 
         States may direct, in the presence of three persons to be appointed by the 
         said nation; one from each of the great medal districts, each of whom 
         shall receive for this service two dollars per day during his actual 
         attendance, and the Choctaws shall have due and seasonable notice of the 
         place where, and time when, the operation shall commence.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      
         The lease granted for establishments on the roads leading 
         through the Choctaw country, is hereby confirmed in all its conditions, 
         and, except in the alteration of boundary, nothing in this instrument shall 
         affect or change any of the pre-existing obligations of the contracting 
         parties.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 7.
      
      
         This treaty shall take erect and become reciprocally 
         obligatory so soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President 
         of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of 
         the Senate of the United States.
         
      
      
      
      
      Done on Mount Dexter, in Pooshapukanuk, in the Choctaw country, 
         this sixteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
         eight hundred and five, and of the independence of the United States
         of America the thirtieth.
      
      
      
         Commissioners:
      
      James Robertson, [L. S.]
      
      Silas Dinsmoor, [L. S.]
      
         Great Medal Mingos:
      
      Pukshunnubbee. his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Mingo Hoomastubbee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Pooshamattaha, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
         Chiefs and warriors:
      
      Ookchummee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tuskamiubbee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      
      James Perry, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Levi Perry, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Isaac Perry, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      William Turnbull, [L. S.]
      
      John Games, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tooteehooma, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Hoosheehooma, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tootuhooma, 2d. his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      George James, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Robert McClure, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tuskeamingo, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Hattukubbeehooluhta, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Fishoommastubbee, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Anoguaiah, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Lewis Lucas, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      James Pitchlynn, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Panshee Eenanhla, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Pansheehoomubu, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      
      Witnesses present at signing and sealing:
      
      
      Thomas Augustine Claiborn, secretary to the commissioners,
      
      John M'Kee,
      
      Samuel Mitchell, United States agent to the Chickasaws.
      
      William Colbert, of the Chickasaws, his x mark,
      
      
      Lewis Ward,
      
      Charles Juzan,
      
      Garrud E. Nelson,
      
      David Chote,
      
      Nathaniel Tolsom,
      
      Mdl. Mackey,
      
      Lewis Lefto,
      
      John Pitchlynn, United States interpreter,
      
      Will. Tyrrell, assistant interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
