
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE CHOCTAW, 1803.
         
         Aug. 31, 1803. | 7 Stat., 80. | Proclamation, Dec. 26, 1803.
         
         Page Images:
            69 | 70
         
      
      
      
      
      Page 69
      
      
      
         To whom these presents shall come,
         
      
      
      
         KNOW YE, That the undersigned, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, of the one part, and of the
         whole Choctaw nation of the other part, being duly authorised by the President of the United States, and by the chiefs and
         headmen of the said nation, do hereby establish in conformity to the convention of Fort Confederation, for the line of demarkation
         recognized in the said convention, the following metes and bounds, viz.: Beginning in the channel of the Hatchee Comesa, or
         Wax river, at the point where the line of limits, between the United States and Spain crosseth the same, thence up the channel
         of said river to the confluence of the Chickasaw-Hay and Buckhatannee rivers, thence up the channel of the Buckhatannee to
         Bogue Hooma or Red creek, thence up the said creek to a Pine tree standing on the left bank of the same, and blazed on two
         of its sides, about twelve links southwest of an old trading path, leading from the town of Mobile to the Hewanee towns, much
         worn, but not in use at the present time:From this tree we find the following bearings and distances, viz.: south fifty-four
         degrees thirty minutes, west, one chain one link a black gum, north thirty-nine degrees east one chain seventy-five links
         to a water oak; thence with the old British line of partition in its various inflections, to a Mulberry post, planted on the
         right bank of the main branch of Sintee Bogue or Snake creek, where it makes a sharp turn to the south east, a large broken
         top Cypress-tree standing near the opposite bank of the creek, which is about three poles wide, thence down the said creek
         to the Tombigby river, thence down the Tombigby and Mobile rivers, to the above mentioned line of limits between the United
         States and Spain, and with the same to the point of beginning: And we, the said commissioners plenipotentiary, do ratify and
         confirm the said line of demarkation and do recognise and acknowledge the same to be the boundary which shall separate and
         distinguish the land ceded to the United States, between the Tombigby, Mobile and Pascagola rivers, from that which has not
         been ceded by the said Choctaw nation.
         
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, we hereunto affix our hands and seals, this thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord one
         thousand eight hundred and three, to triplicates of this tenor and date. Done at Hoe-Buckin-too-pa, the day and year above
         written, and in the twenty-seventh year of the independence of the United States.
      
      
      James  Wilkinson, [L  S.]
      
      Mingo Pooscoos, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Alatala Hooma, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Witnesses present:
      
      Young Gains, interpreter,
      
      John Bowyer, captain Second United States Regiment,
      
      Joseph Chambers, United States factor.
      
      We the commissioners of the Choctaw nation duly appointed and the chiefs of the said nation who reside on the Tombigby river,
         next to Sintee Bogue, do acknowledge to have received from the United States of America, by the hands of Brigadier General
         James Wilkinson, as a consideration in full for the confirmation of the above concession, the following articles, viz.: fifteen
         pieces of strouds, three rifles, one hundred and fifty blankets, two hundred and fifty pounds 
      
      Page 70
      
      of powder,  two hundred and fifty pounds of lead, one bridle, one man's saddle, and one black silk handkerchief.
      
      Mingo Pooscoos, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Alatala Hooma, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
         Commissioners of the Choctaw nation.
      
      Pio Mingo, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Pasa Mastubby Mingo, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tappena Oakchia, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tuskenung Cooche, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Cussoonuckchia, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Pushapia, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
         Chiefs residing on the Tombigbee near to St. Stephens.
      
      Witnesses present:
      
      Young Gains, interpreter,
      
      John Bowyer, Captain Second United States Regiment, 
      
      Joseph Chambers, United States factor. 
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
