
  
    
    
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
    
    
    
  
  
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
    Vol. II, Treaties    
    Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
    
    
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
    
    
      AGREEMENT WITH THE FIVE NATIONS OF INDIANS, 1792.
      
      April 23, 1792. | American State Papers. Indian Affairs, Vol. 1, p. 232.
      
      Page Images:
1027
      
      
    
    
      
      
      Page 1027
    
    George Washington, President of the United States of America, “To all who shall see these presents, greeting:“Whereas an article has been stipulated with the Five Nations of Indians, by, and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, which article is in the words following, to wit:“‘The President of the United States, by Henry Knox, Secretary for the Department of War, stipulates, in behalf of the United States, the following article, with the Five Nations of Indians, so called, being the Senecas, Oneidas, and the Stockbridge Indians, incorporated with them the Tuscaroras, Cayugas, and Onondagas, to wit: the United States, in order to promote the happiness of the Five Nations of Indians, will cause to be expended, annually, the amount of one thousand five hundred dollars, in purchasing for them clothing, domestic animals, and implements of husbandry, and for encouraging useful artificers to reside in their villages.
    “‘In behalf of the United States:
    
      
                 L. S.] H. Knox,
             Secretary for the Department of War.
      
    
    “‘Done in the presence of Tobias Lear, Nathan Jones.
    “Now, know ye, That I, having seen and considered the said article, do accept, ratify, and confirm the same.
    “In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed, and signed the same with my hand.
“Given at the City of Philadelphia, the twenty-third day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, and in the sixteenth year of the sovereignty and independence of the United States.
    
      
        
          
            GEO. WASHINGTON.
          
        
      
    
    “By the President:
    
      
        THOMAS JEFFERSON.”
      
    
    
    
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
    
    Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  
