
  
    
    
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
    
    
    
  
  
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
    Vol. II, Treaties    
    Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
    
    
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
    
    
      TREATY WITH THE IOWA, 1837.
      
      Nov. 23, 1837. | 7 Stat., 547. | Proclamation, Feb. 21, 1838.
      
      Page Images:
500 | 501
      
      
    
    
      
        
          
            
              
                Margin Notes
              
            
            
              
                Cession to the United States.
              
            
            
              
                Consideration therefor.
              
            
            
              
                United States to pay expenses of making treaty.
              
            
            
              
                Treaty binding when ratified.
              
            
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
      Page 500
    
    
      Articles of a treaty made at the city of Saint Louis, between Joshua Pilcher, thereto specially authorized by the President of the United States, and the Ioway [Iowa] Indians, by their chiefs and delegates.
    ARTICLE 1.
    THE Ioway Indians cede to the United States all the right and interest in the land ceded by the treaty, concluded with them and other tribes on the 15th of July 1830, which they might be entitled to claim, by virtue of the phraseology employed in the second article of said treaty.
    ARTICLE 2.
    In consideration of the cession contained in the preceding article, the United States stipulate to pay them two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) in horses, goods and presents, upon their signing this treaty in the city of Saint Louis.
    
      
      
      Page 501
    
    ARTICLE 3.
    The expenses of this negotiation and of the chiefs and delegates signing this treaty to the city of Washington and to their homes to be paid by the United States.
    ARTICLE 4.
    This treaty to be binding upon the contracting parties when the same shall be ratified by the United States.
    In witness whereof the said Joshua Pilcher and the undersigned chiefs and delegates of said Indians have hereunto set their hands at the city of Saint Louis, this twenty-third day of November A. D. 1837.
    
      
        Joshua Pilcher, U. S. Indian agent.
      
    
    
      
        Ne-o-mon-ni,
      
    
    
      
        Non-che-ning-ga,
      
    
    
      
        Wat-che-mon-ne,
      
    
    
      
        Tah-ro-hon.
      
    
    Signed in presence of—
    
      
        E. A. Hitchcock, Captain U. S. Army
      
    
    
      
        John B Farpy.
      
    
    
      
        L. G. C. Bliss.
      
    
    (To the Indian names are subjoined marks.)
    
    
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
    
    Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  
