
  
    
    
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
    
    
    
  
  
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
    Vol. II, Treaties    
    Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
    
    
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
    
    
      TREATY WITH THE KICKAPOO OF THE VERMILION 1820.
      
      Sept. 5, 1820. | 7 Stat., 210. | Proclamation, Jan. 8, 1821.
      
      Page Images:
191
      
      
    
    
      
        
          
            
              
                Margin Notes
              
            
            
              
                Annuity to be hereafter paid at Kaskaskia.
              
            
            
              
                Two thousand dollars paid to enable them to remove; in full for annuity of 1821.
              
            
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
      Page 191
    
    
      Articles of a convention made and concluded, between Benjamin Parke, a Commissioner on the part of the United States, for that purpose, of the one part, and the Chiefs, Warriors, and Head Men, of the Tribe of Kickapoos of the Vermilion, of the other part.
    
    ARTICLE 1.
    It is agreed, that the annuity secured to the said Tribe, by the Treaty of the thirtieth of August, eighteen hundred and nineteen, shall hereafter be paid to the said Tribe at Kaskaskias, in the state of Illinois.
    ARTICLE 2.
    As the said Tribe are now about leaving their settlements on the Wabash, and have desired some assistance to enable them to remove, the said Benjamin Parke, on behalf of the United States, has paid and advanced to the said Tribe, two thousand dollars, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged; which said sum of two thousand dollars, is to be considered as an equivalent, in full, for the annuity due the said Tribe, by virtue of the aforesaid Treaty, for the year eighteen hundred and twenty-one.
    In testimony whereof, the said Benjamin Parke, commissioner as aforesaid, and the chiefs, warriors, and head men, of the said tribe, have hereunto set their hands, at Vincennes, the fifth day of September, eighteen hundred and twenty.
    
      
        B. Parke,
      
    
    
      
        Wagohaw, his x mark,
      
    
    
      
        Tecumsena, his x mark,
      
    
    
      
        Pelecheah, his x mark,
      
    
    
      
        Kechemaqua, his x mark,
      
    
    
      
        Paca Rinqua, her x mark,
      
    
    
      
        Katewah, his x mark,
      
    
    
      
        Nasa Reah, his x mark.
      
    
    In presence of—
    
      
        William Prince, Indian agent,
      
    
    
      
        Samuel Jacobs,
      
    
    
      
        R. S. Reynolds,
      
    
    
      
        George R. C. Sullivan, Vincennes postmaster,
      
    
    
      
        Toussaint Dubois,
      
    
    
      
        Michael Brouillet, interpreter.
      
    
    
    
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
    
    Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  
