
  
    
    
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
    
    
    
  
  
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
    Vol. II, Treaties    
    Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
    
    
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
    
    
      TREATY WITH THE MENOMINEE, 1831.
      
      Feb. 17, 1831. | 7 Stat., 346. | Proclamation, July 9, 1832.
      
      Page Images:
323 | 324 | 325
      
      
    
    
      
        
          
            
              
                Margin Notes
              
            
            
              
                President to prescribe time for removal and settlement of New York Indians.
              
            
            
              
                Amendment.
              
            
            
              
                Stockbridge and Munsees.
              
            
            
              
                Brothertown Indians.
              
            
            
              
                New York Indians.
              
            
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
      Page 323
    
    WHEREAS certain articles of agreement were entered into and concluded at the city of Washington, on the 8th day of February instant, between the undersigned, Commissioners on behalf of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors, representing the Menomonee tribe of Indians, whereby a portion of the Menomonee country, on the northwest side of Fox river and Green bay, was ceded to the United States, for the benefit of the New York Indians, upon certain conditions and restrictions therein expressed: And whereas it has been represented to the parties to that agreement, who are parties hereto, that it would be more desirable and satisfactory to some of those interested that one or two immaterial changes be made in the first and sixth articles, so as not to limit the number of acres to one hundred for each soul who may be settled upon the land when the President apportions it, as also to make unlimited the time of removal and settlement upon these lands by the New York Indians, but to leave both these matters discretionary with the President of the United States.Now, therefore, as a proof of the sincerity of the professions made by the Menomonee Indians, when they declared themselves anxious to terminate in an amicable manner, their disputes with the New York Indians, and also as a further proof of their love and veneration for their great father, the President of the United States, the undersigned, representatives of the Menomonee tribe of Indians, unite and agree
    
      
      
      Page 324
    
    with the Commissioners aforesaid, in making and acknowledging the following supplementary articles a part of their former aforesaid agreement.
    
      First. It is agreed between the undersigned, commissioners on behalf of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors representing the Menomonee tribe of Indians, that, for the reasons above expressed, such parts of the first article of the agreement, entered into between the parties hereto, on the eighth instant, as limits the removal and settlement of the New York Indians upon the lands therein provided for their future homes, to three years, shall be altered and amended, so as to read as follows: That the President of the United States shall prescribe the time for the removal and settlement of the New York Indians upon the lands thus provided for them; and, at the expiration of such reasonable time, he shall apportion the land among the actual settlers, in such manner as he shall deem equitable and just. And if, within such reasonable time, as the President of the United States shall prescribe for that purpose, the New York Indians, shall refuse to accept the provisions made for their benefit, or having agreed, shall neglect or refuse to remove from New York, and settle on the said lands, within the time prescribed for that purpose, that then, and in either of these events, the lands aforesaid shall be, and remain the property of the United States, according to said first article, excepting so much thereof, as the President shall deem justly due to such of the New York Indians, as shall actually have removed to, and settled on the said lands.Second. It is further agreed that the part of the sixth article of the agreement aforesaid, which requires the removal of those of the New York Indians, who may not be settled on the lands at the end of three years, shall be so amended as to leave such removal discretionary with the President of the United States. The Menomonee Indians having full confidence, that, in making his decision, he will take into consideration the welfare and prosperity of their nation.
    Done and signed at Washington, this 17th of February, 1831.
    
      
        John H. Eaton, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        S. C. Stambaugh, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Kaush-kau-no-naive, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        A-ya-mah-taw, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Ko-ma-ni-kin, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Ko-ma-ni-kee-no-shah, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        O-ho-pa-shah, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Ah-ke-ne-pa-weh, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Shaw-wan-noh, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Mash-ke-wet, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Pah-she-nah-sheu, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Chi-mi-na-na-quet, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        A-na-quet-to-a-peh, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Sha-ka-cho-ka-mo, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    Signed in presence of—
    
      
        R. A. Forsyth,
      
    
    
      
        C. A. Grignon,
      
    
    
      
        Law. L. V. Kleeck,
      
    
    
      
        John T. Mason,
      
    
    
      
        P. G. Randolph,
      
    
    
      
        A. G. Ellis.
      
    
    [NOTE.—“This treaty was ratified with the following Proviso contained in the Resolution of the Senate:Provided, That for the purpose of establishing the rights of the New York Indians, on a permanent and just footing, the said treaty shall be ratified with the express understanding that two townships of land on the east side of the Winnebago lake, equal to forty-six thousand and eighty acres shall be laid off, (to commence at some point to be agreed on,) for the use of the Stockbridge and Munsee tribes; and that the improvements made on the lands now in the possession of the said tribes, on the east side of the Fox river, which said lands are to be relinquished, shall, after being valued by a commissioner to be appointed by the President of the United States, be paid for by the Government: Provided, however, that the valuation of such improvements shall not exceed the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars; and that there shall be one township of land, adjoining the foregoing, equal to twenty-three thousand and forty acres, laid off and granted for the use of the Brothertown Indians, who are to be paid, by the Government the sum of one thousand six hundred dollars for the improvements on the lands now in their possession, on the east side of Fox river, and which lands are to be relinquished by said Indians: Also, that a new line shall be run, parallel to the southwestern boundary line, or course of the tract of five hundred thousand acres described in the first article of this treaty, and set apart for the New York Indians, to commence at a point on the west side of the Fox river, and one mile above the Grand Shute on Fox river, and at a sufficient distance from the
    
    
    
      Page 325
    
    said boundary line as established by the said first article, as shall comprehend the additional quantity of two hundred thousand acres of land, on and along the west side of Fox river, without including any of the confirmed private land claims on the Fox river, and which two hundred thousand acres shall be a part of the five hundred thousand acres intended to be set apart for the Six Nations of the New York Indians and the St. Regis tribe; and that an equal quantity to that which is added on the southwestern side shall be taken off from the northeastern side of the said tract, described in that article, on the Oconto Creek, to be determined by a Commissioner, to be appointed by the President of the United States; so that the whole number of acres to be granted to the Six Nations, and St. Regis tribe of Indians, shall not exceed the quantity originally stipulated by the treaty.”]
    
    
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
    
    Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  
