
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE PAWNEE REPUBLIC, 1818.
         
         June 20, 1818. | 7 Stat., 174. | Proclamation, Jan. 17, 1819.
         
         Page Images:
            158 | 159
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Injuries, etc., forgiven.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Perpetual peace and friendship.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Protection of United States acknowledged.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Violators of this treaty to be delivered up, etc.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 158
      
      A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded by, and between, William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, Commissioners of
            the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned, chiefs and
            warriors of the Pawnee Republic, on the part and behalf of their tribe, of the other part.
      
      
      The parties, being desirous of establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe, have agreed
         to the following articles:
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      Every injury or act of hostility, by one or either of the contracting parties, against the other, shall be mutually forgiven and
         forgot.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America, and all the individuals composing
         the said Pawnee tribe.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The undersigned, chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the
         protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign, whatsoever.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The undersigned chiefs and warriers, for themselves and the tribe they represent, do moreover promise and oblige themselves
         to deliver up, or to cause to be delivered up, to the authority of the United States, (to be punished according to law,) each
         and every individual of the said tribe who shall, at any time hereafter, violate the stipulations of the treaty this day concluded between the said Pawnee Republic and the said States.
      
      
      
      
      In witness whereof, the said William Clark, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors
         aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals, this twentieth day of June, in the year of our Lord
         one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-second.
      
      
      William Clark, [L. S.]
      
      Aug. Chouteau, [L. S.]
      
      Petaheick, the Good Chief, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Rarnleshare, the Chief Man, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Shernakitare, the First in the War Party, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Sheterahiate, the Partisan Discoverer, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tearekatacaush, the Brave, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Pa, or the Elk, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tetawiouche, Wearer of Shoes, his x mark, [L. S.]
      Page 159
      
      Done at St. Louis, in the presence of—
      
      R. Wash, secretary of the commission,
      
      T. Paul, colonel M. M. C. Interpreter,
      
      R. Graham, I. A. Illinois Territory,
      
      John O'Fallon, captain R. Regiment,
      
      John Ruland, S. agent Trans'r. etc.
      
      A. L. Papin, interpreter,
      
      J. T. Honore, Indian interpreter,
      
      S. Julian, United States Indian interpreter,
      
      Wm. Grayson,
      
      Josiah Ramsey,
      
      John Robedout.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
