
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE PAWNEE—GRAND, LOUPS, REPUBLICANS, ETC., 1848.
         
         Aug. 6, 1848. | 9 Stat., 949. | Ratified Jan. 8, 1849.
         
         Page Images:
            571
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Land ceded to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment of goods, etc., in consideration of foregoing cession.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to use timber on Wood River.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Friendship and fidelity pledged.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Disputes to be arbitrated.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 571
      
      Treaty with the Pawnees; articles of agreement and convention made this sixth day of August, A. D. 1848, at Fort Childs, near
            the head of Grand Island, on the south side of the Nebraska or Great Platte River, between Lieutenant-Colonel Ludwell E. Powell,
            commanding battalion Missouri Mounted Volunteers, en route to Oregon, in behalf of the United States, and the chiefs and head-men
            of the four confederated bands of Pawnees, viz: Grand Pawnees, Pawnee Loups, Pawnee Republicans, and pawnee Tappage, at present
            residing on the south side of the Platte River.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The confederated bands of the Pawnees hereby cede and relinquish to the United States all their right, title, and interest in and to all that tract of land described as
         follows, viz: Commencing on the south side of the Platte River, five miles west of this post, “Fort Childs;” thence due north
         to the crest of the bluffs north of said Platte River: thence east and along the crest of said bluffs to the termination of
         Grand Island, supposed to be about sixty miles distant; thence south to the southern shore of said Platte River: and thence
         west and along the southern shore of the said Platte River to the place of beginning.The land hereby conveyed is designated within the red lines of the following plat:
      
      
      [NOTE.—The red lines in the original plat are designated by dotted lines in this copy.]
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the land hereby ceded and relinquished, the United States has this day paid, through Captain Stewart Van
         Vliet, assistant quartermaster United States Army, under an order from Lieutenant-Colonel Ludwell E. Powell, commanding battalion
         Missouri Mounted Volunteers, to the said four bands collectively, on the execution of this treaty, the amount of two thousand
         dollars in goods and merchandise, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The United States shall have the privilege of using any hard timber that may at any time be needed, situate upon Wood River, immediately
         north of the land hereby conveyed.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The Pawnee Nation renew their assurance of friendship for the white men, their fidelity to the United States, and their desire for peace with all the neighboring tribes
         of Indians.The Pawnee Nation, therefore, faithfully promise not to molest or injure the property or person of any white citizen of the
         United States, wherever found, nor to make war upon any tribes with whom said Pawnee tribes now are, or may hereafter be,
         at peace; but, should any
      
      
      Page 572
      
      difficulty arise, they agree to refer the matter in dispute to such arbitration as the President of the United States may direct.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      These articles of agreement and convention shall be binding and obligatory from this sixth day of August, A. D. 1848.
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Lieutenant-Colonel Ludwell E. Powell, commanding battalion Missouri mounted volunteers, and
         the chiefs and headmen of the four confederated bands of Grand Pawnees, Pawnee Loups, Pawnee Republicans, and Pawnee Tappage,
         have hereunto signed their names, and affixed their seals, on the day and year aforesaid.
      
      
      Ludwell E. Powell,Lieutenant-Colonel Commanding Battalion
      
      Missouri Mounted Volunteers.
      
      Chef Ma-laigne,Principal Chief of the Four Confederated Bands.
      
      Chiefs of—
      
          Grand Pawnees:
      
      Sha-re-ta-riche,
      
      Ah-tah-ra-scha.
      
          Pawnee Loups:
      
      Ish-Ka-top-pa,
      
      French Chief,
      
      Big Chief.
      
      Pawnee Republicans;
      
      La-lo-che-la-sha-ro,
      
      A-sha-la-la-cot-sha-lo,
      
      American Chief.
      
          Pawnee Tappage:
      
      La-pa-ko-lo-lo-ho-la-sha,
      
      La-sha-pit-ko,
      
      Ta-ra-re-tappage.
      
      (To each of the Indian names is affixed his mark.)
      
      Executed and delivered in the presence of—
      
      Thomas J. Todd, adjutant, battalion Missouri Mounted Volunteers, secretary.
      
      A. W. Sublette, captain, company A.
      
      J. Walker, A. S., U. S. Army.
      
      W. H. Rodgers, captain, Company L.
      
      David McCausland, captain company B.
      
      Stewart Van Vliet, captain and acting quartermaster, U. S. Army.
      
      D. P. Woodbury, lieutenant, Engineers.
      
      J. W. kelly, second lieutenant, commanding Company C.
      
      Saml. J. lingenfelter.
      
      Ant. Le Faivre.
      
      Peter A. Carnes, forage master.
      
      J. B. Small, A. S., U. S. Army.
      
      F. Jeffrey Deroine, interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
