
  
    
    
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
    
    
    
  
  
    INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
    Vol. II, Treaties    
    Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
    
    
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
    
    
      TREATY WITH THE NOISY PAWNEE, 1818.
      
      June 19, 1818. | 7 Stat., 173. | Proclamation, Jan. 7, 1819.
      
      Page Images:
157 | 158
      
      
    
    
      
        
          
            
              
                Margin Notes
              
            
            
              
                Injuries, etc., forgiven.
              
            
            
              
                Perpetual peace and friendship.
              
            
            
              
                Protection of United States acknowledged.
              
            
            
              
                Violators of this treaty to be delivered up, etc.
              
            
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
      Page 157
    
    
      A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded by, and between, William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, Commissioners of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the one part, and the undersigned, chiefs and warriors of the Pitavirate Noisy Pawnee tribe, on the part and behalf of their said tribe, of the other part.
    The parties, being desirous of establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles:
    ARTICLE 1.
    Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties, against the other, shall be mutually forgiven and forgot.
    ARTICLE 2.
    There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America, and all the individuals composing the said Noisy Pawnee tribe.
    ARTICLE 3.
    The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign, whatsoever.
    ARTICLE 4.
    The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and the tribe they represent, do moreover promise and oblige themselves to deliver up, or cause to be delivered up, to the authority of the United States, (to be punished according to law,) each and every individual of the said tribe, who shall, at any time hereafter, violate the stipulations of the treaty this day concluded between the said Noisy Pawnee tribe and the said States.
    In witness whereof, the said William Clark and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs and warriors aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed their names, and affixed their seals, this nineteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
    
    
    
      Page 158
    
    eighteen, and of the independence of the United States the forty-second.
    
      
        Wm. Clark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Aug. Chouteau, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Taretuushta, the First in War, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Charuvaru, the Great Chief, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Skalavalacharo, the only Grand Chief, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Panukuhike, the Chief Man, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Ishtataveeirou, the Discoverer, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Taarakarukaishta, the Handsome Bird, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Lecoutswaroushtu, the Buffaloe Doctor, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Tacacatahekou, the Running Wolf, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    
      
        Kewatookoush, the Little Fox, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
    
    Done at St. Louis, in the presence of—
    
      
        R. Wash, secretary to the commission,
      
    
    
      
        R. Paul, colonel M. M. C. Interpreter.
      
    
    
      
        R. Graham, Indian agent, Illinois Territory,
      
    
    
      
        Jno. O'Fallon, captain R. Regiment.
      
    
    
      
        Jno. Ruland, S. agent, Trans, etc.
      
    
    
      
        A. L. Papin, Interpreter, Indians,
      
    
    
      
        I. T. Honore, Indian Interpreter,
      
    
    
      
        S. Julian, United States Indian Interpreter,
      
    
    
      
        Josiah Ramsey,
      
    
    
      
        Wm. Grayson,
      
    
    
      
        John Robedout.
      
    
    
    
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
    
    Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  
