
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE PIANKASHAW, 1815.
         
         July 18, 1815. | 7 Stat., 124. | Ratified, Dec. 26, 1815.
         
         Page Images:
            111 | 112
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Injuries, etc., forgiven.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Perpetual peace and friendship.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Former treaties recognized and confirmed.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 111
      
      A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded at Portage des Sioux between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste
            Chouteau, Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the
            one part; and the undersigned Chiefs and Warriors of the Piankishaw Tribe or Nation, on the part and behalf of the said Tribe
            or Nation, of the other part.
      
      
      THE parties being anxious of re-establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe or nation,
         and of being placed in all things, and in every respect, on the same footing upon which they stood before the war, have agreed
         to the following articles:
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other, shall be mutually forgiven and forgot.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing
         the Piankishaw tribe or nation.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The contracting parties, in the sincerity of mutual friendship, recognize, re-establish, and confirm, all and every treaty, contract, or agreement, heretofore concluded between the United
         States and the said Piankishaw tribe or nation.
      
      
      
      
      In witness of all and every thing herein determined between the United States of America, and the said Piankeshaw tribe or
         nation: we, their underwritten commissioners, and chiefs aforesaid, by virtue of our full powers, have signed this definitive
         treaty, and have caused our seals to be hereunto affixed.
      
      Page 112
      
      Done at Portage des Sioux, this eighteenth day of July, in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, and
         of the independence of the United States of America the fortieth.
      
      
      William Clark, [L. S.]
      
      Ninian Edwards, [L. S.]
      
      Auguste Choteau, [L. S.]
      
      La-ma-noan, or the Axe, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      La-mee-pris-jeau, or Sea-wolf, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Mon-sai-raa, or Rusty, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Wa-pan-gia, or Swan, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Na-maing-sa, or the Fish, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Done at Portage des Sioux, in the presence of—
      
      R. Wash, secretary to the commissioners,
      
      Thomas Forsyth, Indian agent,
      
      N. Boilvin, agent,
      
      T. Paul, C. C. M.
      
      Maurice Blondeaux,
      
      John Hay,
      
      John Miller, colonel Third Infantry,
      
      Richard Chitwood, major mounted,
      
      Wm. Irvine Adair, captain Third Regiment
      
      U. S. Infantry.
      
      Cyrus Edwards,
      
      Saml. Solomon,
      
      Jacques Mette,
      
      Louis Decouagne,
      
      John A. Cameron,
      
      sworn interpr't'rs.
      
      F. Duchouquet, United States interpreter,W.
      
      Louis Bufait, Indian interpreter,
      
      J. Bts. Chandonnai, interpreter,
      
      W. Knaggs,
      
      Antoine Bondi,
      
      Jean Bt. Massac, his x mark.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
