
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         AGREEMENT WITH THE PIANKESHAW, 1818.
         
         Jan. 3, 1818. | Unratified. | Indian Office Compilation of Treaties, 1837, p. 230.
         
         Page Images:
            1031 | 1032
         
      
      
      
      Page 1031
      
      Contract entered into under the authority of the United States, between governor Thomas Posey, superintendent of Indian affairs,
            and Chekommia or Big River, principal chief of the Piankeshaws.
      
      
      This indenture, made this third day of January, 1818, between governor Thomas Posey, superintendent of Indian affairs, on
         the one part, and Chekommia or Big River, principal chief of the Piankeshaw tribe of Indians, acting as well in his own name,
         as in the name and
      
      
      Page 1032
      
      behalf of the said Piankeshaw tribe of Indians, on the other part, witnesseth:Whereas, at a treaty held under the authority of the United States, with the chiefs and head men of the said Piankeshaw nation
         of Indians, at Vincennes, in the Indiana territory, the 27th day of August, 1804, [1084] and William Henry Harrison, governor of the Indiana territory, superintendent of Indian Affairs, and commissioner
         plenipotentiary of the United States, for concluding any treaty or treaties with said tribe, it was agreed by said William
         Henry Harrison, on the one part, and the chiefs and head men of said tribe, on the other; that the Piankeshaw tribe, for the
         consideration therein mentioned, should cede and relinquish to the United States forever, all that tract of country, which
         lies between the Wabash and the tract ceded by the Kaskaskia tribe, in the year one thousand eight hundred and three, and
         south of a line to be drawn from the northwest corner of Vincennes tract, northerly seventy-eight degrees west, until it intersects
         the boundary line which has heretofore separated the lands of the Piankeshaws from the said tract ceded by the Kaskaskia tribe.And it was also further agreed by the chiefs of the said Piankeshaw tribe, on the one part, and the said William Henry Harrison,
         on the other part, that the said tribe should reserve to themselves, the right of locating a tract of two square miles, or
         twelve hundred and eighty acres: the fee of which is to remain with them forever.And whereas the said Piankeshaw nation, being reduced in number, and being unable to occupy the land reserved to them, by
         the treaty concluded between the chiefs of said tribe, and William Henry Harrison as aforesaid: therefore be it known, to
         all to whom these presents shall come, greeting: That the said Chekommia, commonly called Big River, principal chief and head
         man of the Piankeshaw tribe of Indians, as well in his own name and behalf of the said Piankeshaw tribe, for the consideration
         of one thousand dollars received to our full satisfaction, of governor Thomas Posey, superintendent of Indian affairs, and
         with full power and authority from the President of the United States, to act concerning the within named premises, have relinquished,
         and do by these presents, cede and relinquish to the United States, all that tract of land two miles square, and containing
         twelve hundred and eighty acres, being the same tract which was reserved to us by the treaty concluded at Vincennes, as aforesaid,
         between governor William Henry Harrison, on the one part, and the chiefs and head men of the said Piankeshaw nation, on the
         other.
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Thomas Posey, superintendent of Indian affairs, and Chekommia, principal chief, and representing
         the said Piankeshaw tribe, have hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals.Done at Vincennes, this third day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen, and of the
         independence of the United States the forty-second.
      
      
      Th. Posey. [L. S.]
      
      Chekommia, or Big River, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Signed, sealed, and executed, in presence of—
      
      John Law, attorney at law.
      
      H. Lasselle.
      
      Caleb Lownes.
      
      Joseph Barron, Indian interpreter.
      
      Macatamanguay, or Loon, a Wea chief, his x mark.
      
      This may certify, that Chehommia, or Big River, who has signed the above, is principal chief and head man of the Piankeshaw
         tribe, and with full power and authority from said tribe, to sign and execute the above contract, on behalf of said tribe.
      
      
      Macatamanguay, or Loon, a Wea chief, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Little Eyes, or Washington, a Wea chief, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
