
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE PILLAGER BAND OF CHIPPEWA INDIANS, 1847.
         
         Aug. 21, 1847. | 9 Stat., 908. | Proclamation Apr. 7, 1848.
         
         Page Images:
            569 | 570
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Peace and friendship to be perpetual.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of lands to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Country ceded to be held as Indian land until otherwise ordered.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Annuity in goods for five years, in consideration of the foregoing cession.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty to be obligatory when ratified by the President.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 569
      
      
      Article of a treaty made and concluded at Leech Lake on the twenty-first day of August, in the year one thousand eight hundred
            and forty-seven, between the United States, by their commissioners, Isaac A. Verplank and Henry M. Rice, and the Pillager
            Band of Chippewa Indians, by their chiefs, head-men, and warriors.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      It is agreed that the peace and friendship which exists between the United States and the Indians, parties to this treaty,
         shall be perpetual.
      
      
      Page 570
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The Pillager band of Chippewa Indians hereby sell and cede to the United States all the country within the following boundaries, viz: Beginning at the south end of Otter-Tail Lake:
         thence southerly on the boundary-line between the Sioux and Chippeway Indians to Long Prairie River; thence up said river
         to Crow Wing River; thence up Crow Wing River to Leaf River; thence up Leaf River to the head of said river; and from thence
         in a direct line to the place of beginning.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      It is stipulated that the country hereby ceded shall be held by the United States as Indian land, until otherwise ordered by the President.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      In consideration of the foregoing cession, the United States agree to furnish to the Pillager band of Chippewa Indians annually,
         for five years, the following articles: Fifty three-point Mackinaw blankets, three hundred two and a half point Mackinaw blankets,
         fifty one and a half point Mackinaw blankets, three hundred and forty yards of gray list-cloth, four hundred and fifty yards
         of white list scarlet cloth, eighteen hundred yards of strong dark prints, assorted colors, one hundred and fifty pounds three-thread
         gray gilling-twine, seventy-five pounds turtle-twine, fifty bunches strugeontwine, twenty-five pounds of linen thread, two
         hundred combs, five thousand assorted needles, one hundred and fifty medal looking-glasses, ten pounds of vermilion, thirty
         nests (fourteen each) heavy tin kettles, five hundred pounds of tobacco, and five barrels of salt. And the United States further
         agree that at the first payment made under this treaty, the Indians, parties to this treaty, shall receive as a present two
         hundred warranted beaver-traps and seventy-five north-west guns.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      This treaty shall be obligatory upon the parties thereto when ratified by the President and Senate of the United States.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Isaac A. Verplank and Henry M. Rice, commissioners, as aforesaid, and the chiefs, headmen,
         and warriors of the Pillager band of Chippewa Indians, have hereunto set their hands at Leech Lake, this twenty-first day
         of August, one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven.
      
      
      Isaac A. Verplank.
      
      Henry M. Rice.
      
      George Bonja, Interpreter.
      
      Aish-ke-bo-ge-Koshe, or Flat Mouth, first chief, his x mark.
      
      Ca-pe-ma-be, or Elder Brother's Son, second chief, his x mark.
      
      Nia-je-ga-boi, or La Trappe, head warrior, his x mark.
      
      Ca-gouse, or Small Porcupine, headman, his x mark.
      
      Pe-ji-ke, or the Buffalo, second warrior, his x mark.
      
      Ca-ken-ji-wi-nine, or Charcoal, third warrior, his x mark.
      
      Na-bi-ne-ashe, or the Bird that flies on one side, second headman, his x mark.
      
      Ne-ba-coim, or Night Thunder, warrior, his x mark.
      
      Chang-a-so-ning, or Nine Fingers, third headman, his x mark.
      
      Witness: 
      George Bonja, Interpreter.
      
      A. Morrison,
      
      A. R. McLeod.
      
      J. W. Lynde.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
