
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1866.
         
         Mar. 29, 1866. | 14 Stats., 763. | Ratified Apr. 26, 1866. | Proclaimed May 5, 1866.
         
         Page Images:
            916
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Provisions of third article of former treaty extended to all adult persons of the tribe.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 916
      
      Whereas certain amendments are desired by the Pottawatomie Indians to their treaty concluded at the Pottawatomie agency on
         the fifteenth day of November, A. D. 1861, and amended by resolution of the Senate of the United States dated April the fifteenth,
         A. D. 1862; and whereas the United States are willing to assent to such amendments, it is therefore agreed by and between
         Dennis N. Cooley, commissioner, on the part of the United States, thereunto duly authorized, and the undersigned business
         committee, acting on behalf of said tribe, and being thereunto duly authorized, in manner and form following, that is to say:
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The beneficial provisions in behalf of the more prudent and intelligent members of said tribe, contained in the third article of the amended
         treaty above recited, shall not hereafter be confined to males and heads of families, but the same shall be and are hereby
         extended to all adult persons of said tribe, without distinction of sex, whether such persons are or shall be heads of families
         or otherwise, in the same manner, to the same extent, and upon the same terms, conditions, and stipulations as are contained
         in said third article of said treaty with reference to “males and heads of families.”
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof the said parties by their Commissioner and Business Committee aforesaid have hereunto set their hands
         and seals at Washington City, District of Columbia, this 29th day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
         and sixty-six.
      
      
      Dennis N. Cooley, [SEAL.]    Commissioner.
      
      J. N. Bourassa, [SEAL.]
      
      U. F. Navane, [SEAL.]
      
      B. N. Bertrand, [SEAL.]
      
      Business Committee.
      
      Signed in presence of—
      
      L. R. Palmer,
      
      James Steele.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
