
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1834.
         
         Dec. 4, 1834. | 7 Stat., 467. | Proclamation, Mar. 16, 1835.
         
         Page Images:
            428 | 429
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Possession to be given within three years.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment in goods.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 428
      
      
      Articles of a Treaty, made and concluded at a camp, on Lake Max-ee-nie-kue-kee, in the State of Indiana, between William Marshall,
            Commissioner on the part of the United States, and Com-o-za, a Chief of the Potawattimie tribe of Indians and his band, on
            the fourth day of December, in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-four.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The above named chief and his band hereby cede to the United States, the two sections of land reserved for them by the 2d article of the treaty between the United States
         and the Pottawattimie Indians on Tippecanoe river on the 26th day of October, in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-two.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The above named chief and his band agree to yield peaceable possession of said sections within three years from the date of the ratification of said treaty of eighteen hundred
         and thirty-two.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      In consideration of the cession aforesaid the United States stipulate to pay the above named chief and his band the sum of four hundred dollars in goods at the signing of this treaty, and an annuity
         of four hundred dollars for one year, the receipt of which former sum of (four hundred dollars in goods) is hereby acknowledged.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      This treaty shall be binding upon both parties, from the date of its ratification by the President and Senate of the United States.
      
      
      Page 429
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said William Marshall, commissioner, on the part of the United States, and the above named chief
         and head men, for themselves and their band, have hereunto subscribed their names, the day and year above written.
      
      
      William Marshall,
      
      Com-o-za, his x mark,
      
      Ah-ke-pah-am-sa, his x mark,
      
      Nee-so-aw-quet, his x mark,
      
      Paw-pee, his x mark.
      
          Witnesses:
      
      J. B. Duret, secretary to commission,
      
      Cyrus Taber,
      
      Joseph Barron, interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
