
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1836.
         
         Mar. 29, 1836. | 7 Stat., 498. | Proclamation, June 4, 1836.
         
         Page Images:
            457
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of land to United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to remove within two years.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment for land ceded.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to pay expenses of this treaty.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 457
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded on Tippecanoe river in the State of Indiana between Abel C. Pepper commissioner on
            the part of the United States and Wau-ke-wa Che-cose's only son a Pottawatamy chief and his band, on his twenty-ninth day
            of March, eighteen hundred and thirty-six.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The above named chief and his band hereby cede to the United States the four sections of land reserved for them by the second article of the treaty between the United
         States and the Pottawatamy Indians.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The above named chief and his band agree to yield peaceable possession of said land within three months from this date, and
         to remove to the country provided for the Pottawatamy nation west of the Mississippi river within two years.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      In consideration of the cession aforesaid the United States stipulate to pay the above named chief and his band twenty-five hundred and sixty dollars in specie at the first
         payment of annuity after the ratification of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The United States stipulate to provide for the payment of the necessary expenses attending the making and concluding this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      This treaty shall be binding upon both the parties from the date of its ratification by the President and Senate of the United
         States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      [Stricken out by Senate.]
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Abel C. Pepper, commissioner on the part of the United States, and the above named chief and
         head men, have hereunto subscribed their names, the day and year above written.
      
      
      Abel C. Pepper,
      
      Wau-ke-wau, his x mark,
      
      Waw-was-mo-queh, widow of Che-cose, her x mark,
      
      Te-shaw-gen, his x mark,
      
      Mes-quaw, her x mark,
      
      Pah-Siss, his x mark,
      
      She-aw-ke-pee, his x mark.
      
      Witness:
      
      C. Carter, secretary.
      
      Henry Ossem, interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
