
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1836.
         
         Apr. 22, 1836. | 7 Stat., 501. | Proclamation, May 25, 1836.
         
         Page Images:
            459
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Land ceded to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Consideration therefor.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to remove within two years.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Expenses of this treaty to be paid by United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 459
      
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at the Indian agency, in the State of Indiana between Abel C. Pepper commissioner
            on the part of the United States, and Nas-waw-kee and Quash-quaw chiefs and head men of the Patawattimie tribe of Indians
            and their bands on the 22d day of April, 1836.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The above named chiefs and head men and their bands hereby cede to the United States three sections of land reserved for them by the second article of the treaty between the United
         States and the Patawattimie tribe of Indians on Tippecanoe river on the 26th day of October, 1832.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the cession aforesaid the United States stipulate to pay the above chiefs and head men and their bands nineteen
         hundred and twenty dollars at the first payment of annuity after the ratification of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The above named chiefs and head men and their bands agree to give possession of the aforesaid three sections of land, and
         remove to the country west of the Mississippi river provided by the United States for the Potawattimie nation of Indians within
         two years from this date.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      [Stricken out by Senate.]
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      The United States stipulate to provide for the payment of
         the necessary expenses attending the making and concluding this
         treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      This treaty, after the same shall be ratified by the President
         and Senate of the United States, shall be binding upon both parties.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Abel C. Pepper, commissioner as
         aforesaid, and the said chiefs and head men and their bands, have hereunto
         set their hands, this 22d day of April, A. D. 1836.
      
      
      A. C. Pepper,
      
      Quash-quaw, his x mark,
      
      Me-cos-ta, his x mark,
      
      Nas-waw-kee, his x mark,
      
      Wem-se-ko, his x mark,
      
      Ah-quaush-she, his x mark.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      J. B. Duret, secretary to commissioner,
      
      Joseph Bamont, interpreter,
      
      Cyrus Tober,
      
      Geo. W. Ewing,
      
      Peter Barron.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
