
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1836.
         
         Apr. 22, 1836. | 7 Stat., 500. | Proclamation, May 25, 1836.
         
         Page Images:
            458 | 459
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of land to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment therefor.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to remove within two years.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Expenses of treaty to be paid by United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 458
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at the Indian Agency, in the State of Indiana, between Abel C. Pepper, commissioner
            on the part of the United States and O-kah-mause, Kee-waw-nay, Nee-boash, and Mat-chis-jaw, chiefs and head men of the Patawattimie
            tribe of Indians and their bands, on the twenty-second day of April, in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-six.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The above named chiefs and head men and their bands, hereby cede to the United States, ten sections of land, reserved for them by the second article of the treaty, between the United
         States and thePatawattimie tribe of Indians, on Tippecanoe river, on the 26th day of October, in the year 1832.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the cession aforesaid, the United States stipulate to pay to the above-named chiefs and head men and their bands, the sum of six thousand four hundred dollars, at the first payment
         of annuity, after the ratification of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The above-named chiefs and head men and their bands agree to remove to the country west of the Mississippi river, provided forthe Patawattimie nation by the United States, within
         two years.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      [Stricken out by Senate.]
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      The United States stipulate to provide for the payment of the necessary expenses attending the making and concluding this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      This treaty, after the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, shall be binding upon both parties.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony thereof, the said Abel C. Pepper, commissioner aforesaid, and the said chiefs and head men and their bands, have
         hereunto set their hands, this 22d day of April, A. D. 1836.
      
      
      Abel C. Pepper,
      
      Pash-po-ho, his x mark,
      
      O-kaw-mause, his x mark,
      
      Kee-waw-nee, his x mark,
      
      Nee-boash, or twisted head, his x mark,
      
      I-o-weh, or nation's name, his x mark,
      
      Miss-no-qui, female fish, his x mark,
      
      Kaw-che-noss, his x mark,
      Page 459
      
      Cho-quiss, fishes entrails, his x mark,
      
      Ma-che-saw, bleating fawn, his x mark,
      
      Waw-po-ko-ne-aw, white night, his x mark,
      
      Ah-muck, his x mark,
      
      Kohe-kah-me, his x mark,
      
      Que-que-nuk, his x mark.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      Geo. W. Ewing,
      
      Cyrus Tober,
      
      J. B. Duret, secretary,
      
      Peter Barron,
      
      Joseph Bamont, interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
