
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1836.
         
         Sept. 20, 1836. | 7 Stat., 513. | Proclamation, Feb. 18, 1837.
         
         Page Images:
            470
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Land ceded to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment therefor.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to remove within two years.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment of Indian debts.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to pay expenses of making treaty.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Obligatory when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 470
      
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Chippewanaung in the State of Indiana, between Abel C. Pepper, commissioner on
            the part of the United States, and To-i-sa's brother Me-mat-way and Che-quaw-ka-ko, chiefs and headmen of the Patawattimie
            tribe of Indians and their band on the twentieth day of September, in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-six.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The above-named chiefs and headmen and their band hereby cede to the United States, ten sections of land reserved for them by the second article of the treaty between the United States,
         and the Patawattimie tribe of Indians, on Tippecanoe river, on the 27th day of October, in the year 1832.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the cession aforesaid the United States stipulate to pay the above-named chiefs and headmen and their band the sum of eight thousand dollars on or before the first day of May
         next.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The above-named chiefs and headmen and their band agree to remove to the country west of the Mississippi river, provided for the Patawattimie nation by the United States, within two
         years.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      At the request of the above-named band, it is stipulated that after the ratification of this treaty the United States shall
         appoint a commissioner who shall be authorized to pay such debts of the said band as may be proved to his satisfaction to be just, to be deducted from the amount stipulated
         in the second article of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      The United States stipulate to provide for the payment of the necessary expenses attending the making and concluding this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      This treaty, after the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, shall be binding upon both parties.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Abel C. Pepper, commissioner as aforesaid, and the said chiefs, and head men, and their band,
         have hereunto set their hands, this twentieth day of September, in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-six.
      
      
      Abel C. Pepper,
      
      We-we-sah, or To-i sa's brother, his x mark,
      
      Me-mot-way, his x mark,
      
      Che-quaw-ka-ko, his x mark,
      
      Min-tom-in, his x mark,
      
      Shaw-gwok-skuk, his x mark,
      
      Mee-kiss, or Kawk's widow, his x mark.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      J. B. Duret, secretary.
      
      Allen Hamilton,
      
      Cyrus Taber,
      
      Geo. W. Ewing,
      
      James Moree,
      
      Abram Burnett.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
