
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1815.
         
         July 18, 1815. | 7 Stat., 123. | Ratified, Dec. 26, 1815.
         
         Page Images:
            110 | 111
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Injuries, etc., forgiven.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Peace and friendship perpetual.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Prisoners to be delivered up.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Former treaty recognized and confirmed.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 110
      
      
      A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded at Portage des Sioux between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste
            Chouteau, Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the
            one part; and the undersigned Chiefs and Warriors of the Poutawatamie Tribe or Nation, residing on the river Illinois, on
            the part and behalf of the said Tribe or Nation, of the other part.
      
      THE parties being desirous of re-establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe or nation,
         and of being placed in all things, and in every respect, on the same footing upon which they stood before the war, have agreed
         to the following articles:
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      Every injury or act of hostility by one or either of the contracting parties against the other, shall be mutually forgiven and forgot.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America, and all the individuals composing the said
         Poutawatamie tribe or nation.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The contracting parties hereby agree, promise, and bind themselves, reciprocally, to deliver up all the prisoners now in their hands, (by what means soever the same may have come into their possession,) to
         the officer commanding at Fort Clarke, on the Illinois river.
      
      
      Page 111
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The contracting parties, in the sincerity of mutual friendship, recognize, re-establish and confirm, all and every treaty, contract, and agreement, heretofore concluded between the United
         States and the Poutawatamie tribe or nation..
      
      
      
      
      In witness of all and every thing herein determined between the United States of America, and the said Poutawatamie tribe
         or nation, residing on the river Illinois: we, their underwritten commissioners and chiefs aforesaid, by virtue of our full
         powers, have signed this definitive treaty, and have caused our seals to be hereunto affixed. Done at Portage des Sioux, this
         eighteenth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, and of the independence of the United
         States the fortieth.
      
      
      William Clark, [L. S.]
      
      Ninian Edwards, [L. S.]
      
      Auguste Chouteau, [L. S.]
      
      Sunawchewome, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Mucketepoke, or Black Partridge, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Neggeneshkek, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Chawcawbeme, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Bendegakewa, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Wapewy, or White Hair, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Outawa, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      In the presence of—
      
      R. Wash, secretary of the commission,
      
      Thomas Forsyth, Indian ag
      
      N. Boilvin, agent,
      
      T. Paul, C. M.
      
      Maurice Blondeaux,
      
      Manuel Lisa, agent,
      
      John Miller, colonel Third Infantry,
      
      Richard Chitwood, Major M.
      
      Wm. Irvine Adair, capain Third Regiment U. S. Infantry,
      
      Cyrus Edwards,
      
      Samuel Solomon,
      
      Jacques Mette,
      
      Louis Decouagne,
      
      John A. Camero,
      
          sworn interpreters.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
