
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1834.
         
         Dec. 16, 1834. | 7 Stat., 468. | Proclamation, Mar. 16, 1835.
         
         Page Images:
            430
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Land ceded to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Consideration therefor.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Miller to be discontinued.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 430
      
      Articles of a treaty, made and concluded at the Potawattimie mills, in the State of Indiana, on the sixteenth day of December,
            in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four, between William Marshall Commissioner on the part of the
            United States and the Chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Potawattamis Indians.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The chiefs, head men and warriors aforesaid agree to cede to the United States their title and interest to a reservation made to them at the treaty on the Tippecanoe river on
         the 27th day of October 1832 of two sections of land to include their mills on said river.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the cession aforesaid the United States agree to pay the Potawattimie Indians, at the payment of their annuities
         in 1835, the sum of seven hundred dollars in cash, and pay their just debts agreeably to a schedule hereunto annexed, amounting
         to nine hundred dollars.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The miller provided for by the 3rd article of the treaty with the Potawattimie tribe of Indians on the sixteenth day of October,
         in the year eighteen hundred and twenty-six, is not to be supported by the United States, and to cease from and after the
         signing of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      This treaty shall be binding upon both parties, from the date of its ratification by the President and Senate of the United States.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said William Marshall, commissioner on the part of the United States, and the chiefs, head men,
         and warriors of the Potawatamie tribe of Indians, have hereunto subscribed their names, the day and year above written.
      
      
      William Marshall,
      
      Ash-kum, his x mark,
      
      Ku-waw-nay, his x mark,
      
      Pash-po-ho, his x mark,
      
      Che-quawm-a-kaw-ko, his x mark,
      
      Nas-waw-kay, his mark,
      
      Quaush-quaw, his x mark,
      
      Meno-quet, his x mark,
      
      Kin-koash, his x mark,
      
      No-law-kah, his x mark,
      
      Me-no-mi-nee, his x mark,
      
      Mas-kah-tah-mo-ah, his x mark,
      
      Pee-pis-kah, his x mark,
      
      Pam-bo-go, his x mark,
      
      Kaw-kawk-kay, his x mark,
      
      Wi-aw-koos-say, his x mark,
      
      Te-kam-a-say, his x mark,
      
      Sea-Coas, his x mark,
      
      Waw-paw-kue, his x mark,
      
      Mi-shaw-bo, his x mark,
      
      Te-quaw-kit, his x mark,
      
      Waw-pe-no-quah, his x mark,
      
      We-wus-sah, his x mark,
      
      O-kah-maul, his x mark,
      
      I-you-way, his x mark,
      
      Mat-chis-saw, his mark.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      J. B. Duret, secretary,
      
      Cyrus Taber,
      
      J. B. Boure, interpreter,
      
      Joseph Barron, principal interpreter.
      
      It is agreed that the United States will satisfy the claims mentioned in the following schedule as provided for in the second
         article of the foregoing treaty.—viz:
      
      
      To J. B. Duret, four hundred dollars.To Cyrus Taber, one hundred dollars.To Ewing Walker & Co., three hundred dollars.To Cyrus Vigus, one hundred dollars.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
