
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1836.
         
         Apr. 11, 1836  | 7 Stat., 499. | Proclamation, May 25, 1836.
         
         Page Images:
            457 | 458
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of land to United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Consideration therefor.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to remove within two years.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 457
      
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at a camp on Tippecanoe river, in the State of Indiana, between Abel C. Pepper commissioner
            on the part of the United States, and Pau-koo-shuck, Aub-ba-naub-ba's oldest son and the head men of Aub-ba-naub-ba's band
            of Potawattimie Indians, this eleventh day of April in the year, eighteen hundred and thirty-six.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The aforesaid Pau-koo-shuck and the head men of Aub-ba-naub-ba's band, hereby cede to the United States the thirty-six sections of land reserved for them by the second article of the Treaty between the
         United States and the Potawattimie Indians on Tippecanoe river on the twenty-sixth day of October, in the year eighteen hundred
         and thirty-two,
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the cession aforesaid, the United States stipulate to pay to the aforesaid band the sum of twenty-three thousand
         and forty dollars in specie, one half at the first payment of annuity, after the ratification of this Treaty, and the other
         half at the succeeding payment of annuity,
      
      
      Page 458
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The above-named Pau-koo-shuck and his band agree to remove to the country west of the Mississippi river, provided for the Potawattimie nation by the United States within two
         years,
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      [Stricken out by Senate.]
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      This Treaty, after the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States shall be binding upon both parties.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Abel C. Pepper, commissioner as aforesaid, and the said Pau-koo-shuck, and his band, have hereunto
         set their hands, this eleventh day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six.
      
      
      Abel C. Pepper,
      
      Pau-koo-shuck, his x mark,
      
      Taw-wah-quah, her x mark,
      
      Shah-quaw-ko-shuck, Aub-ba-naub-ba's son, his x mark,
      
      Mat-taw-mim, his x mark,
      
      Si-nis-quah, her x mark,
      
      Dah-moosh-ke-keaw, her x mark,
      
      Nan-wish-ma, his x mark,
      
      O-Sauk-kay, his x mark,
      
      Ke-waw-o-nuck, his x mark,
      
      Aun-tuine, his x mark,
      
      Sin-ba-nim, his x mark,
      
      Nees-se-ka-tah, his x mark,
      
      Kaw-ke-me, her x mark,
      
      Pe-waw-ko, her x mark,
      
      O-ket-chee, her x mark,
      
      Nan-cee, her x mark.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      E. O. Cicott, secretary,
      
      Henry Ossem,
      
      Thos. Robb,
      
      Wm. Polke,
      
      Joseph Bamont, principal interpreter,
      
      Joseph Truckey,
      
      George W. Ewing,
      
      Cyrus Tober.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
