
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE POTAWATOMI, 1836.
         
         Sept. 22, 1836. | 7 Stat., 514. | Proclamation, Feb. 16, 1837.
         
         Page Images:
            471
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Land ceded to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment therefor.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to remove within two years.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment of Indian debts.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to pay expenses of making treaty.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 471
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Chippewanaung—in the State of Indiana between A. C. Pepper, commissioner on the
            part of the United States and Mo-sack, chief of the Potawattimie tribe of Indians and his band, on the twenty-second day of
            September, in the year eighteen hundred and thirty-six.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The above-named chief and his band hereby cede to the United States four sections of land reserved for him and his band by the 2nd article of the treaty between the
         United States, and the Potawattimie tribe of Indians, on Tippecanoe river, on the 27th day of October, in the year eighteen
         hundred and thirty-two.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the cession aforesaid, the United States stipulate to pay the above-named chief and his band the sum of three thousand two hundred dollars, on or before the first of May next.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The above-named chief and his band agree to remove to the country west of the Mississippi river provided for the Potawattimie nation by the United States within two
         years.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      At the request of the above-named chief and his band, it is stipulated that after the ratification of this treaty the United
         States shall appoint a commissioner who shall be authorized to pay such debts of the said band as may be proved to his satisfaction to be just, to be deducted from the amount stipulated
         in the second article of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      The United States stipulate to provide for the payment of the necessary expenses attending the making and concluding this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      This treaty after the same shall be ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, shall be binding upon both parties.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said A. C. Pepper, commissioner as aforesaid, and the said chief and his band have hereunto set
         their hands, the day and year first above written.
      
      
      A. C. Pepper, commissioner,
      
      Mo-sack, his x mark,
      
      Nawb-bwitt, his x mark,
      
      Skin-cheesh, her x mark,
      
      Spo-tee, his x mark,
      
      Naw-squi-base, her x mark,
      
      Mose-so, his x mark.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      J. B. Duret, secretary,
      
      Geo. W. Ewing,
      
      Andrew Gosselin, his x mark,
      
      Bennack, his x mark.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
