
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         AGREEMENT WITH THE SENECA, 1823.
         
         Sept. 3, 1823. | Unratified. | Indian Office Compilation of Treaties, 1837, p. 305.
         
         Page Images:
            1033 | 1034
         
      
      
      
      
      Page 1033
      
      At a treaty held under the authority of the United States at Moscow, in the county of Livingston, in the State of New York,
            between the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Seneka nation of Indians in behalf of said nation, and John Greig and Henery
            B. Gibson of Canandaigua in the county of Ontario; in the presence of Charles Carroll, esquire, commissioner appointed by
            the United States for holding said treaty, and of Nathaniel Gorham, esquire, superintendent, in behalf of the State of Massachusetts.
      
      Know all men by these presents, that the said sachems, chiefs, and warriors, for and in consideration of the sum of four thousand
         two hundred and eighty-six dollars, lawful money of the United States, to them in hand paid by the said John Greig and Henry
         B. Gibson, at or immediately before the ensealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged,
         have granted, bargained, sold, aliened, released, quit claimed and confirmed unto the said John Greig and Henry B. Gibson,
         and by these presents do grant, bargain, sell, alien, release, quit claim, and confirm, unto the said John Greig and Henry
         B. Gibson, their heirs and assigns, forever, all that tract, piece or parcel of land commonly called and known by the name
         of the Gordeau reservation, situate, lying and being in the counties of Livingston and Genesee, in the State of New York,
         bounded as follows, that is to say: Beginning at the mouth of Steep Hill creek, thence due east, until it strikes the Old
         Path, thence south until a due west line will intersect with certain steep rocks on the west side of Genesee river, thence
         extending due west, due north, and due east, until it strikes the first mentioned bound, enclosing as much land on the west
         side as on the east side of the river, and containing according to the survey and measurement made of the same by Augustus
         Porter, surveyor, seventeen thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven 137-160 acres, be the same more or less: excepting nevertheless,
         and always reserving out of this grant and conveyance, twelve hundred and eighty acres of land, bounded as follows, that is
         to say; on the east by Genesee river, on the south by a line running due west from the centre of the Big Slide so called,
         on the north by a line parallel to the south line and two miles distant therefrom, and on the west by a line running due north
         and south, and at such a distance from the river as to include the said quantity of twelve hundred and eighty acres and no
         more; which said twelve hundred and eighty acres are fully and clearly understood, to remain the property of the said parties
         of the first part, and their nation, in as full and ample a manner, as if these presents had not been executed: together with
         all and singular the rights, privileges, hereditaments, and appurtenances, to the said hereby granted premises belonging or
         in anywise appertaining, and all the estate, right, title, and interest, whatsoever, of them the said parties of the first
         part, and of their nation, of, in, and to, the said tract of land above described, except as is above excepted. To have and
         to hold all and singular the above granted premises with the appurtenances, unto the said John Greig and Henry B. Gibson,
         their heirs and assigns, to the sole and only proper use, benefit, and behoof, of the said John Greig and Henry B. Gibson,
         their heirs and assigns forever.
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the parties to these presents have hereunto, and to three other instruments of the same tenor and date,
         one to remain with the United States, one to remain with the State of Massachusetts, one to remain with the Senaka nation
         of Indians, and one to remain with the said John Greig and Henry B. Gibson, interchangeably
      
      Page 1034
      
      set their hands and seals, the third day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty three.
      
      Saquiungarluchta, or Young King, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Karlundawana, or Pollard, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Sagouata, or Red Jacket, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Tishkaaga, or Little Billy, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Tywaneash, or Black Snake, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Kahalsta, or Strong, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Chequinduchque, or Little Beard, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Tuyongo, or Seneka White, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Onondaki, or Destroy Town, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Lunuchshewa, or War Chief, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Genuchsckada, or Stevenson, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Mary Jamieson, her x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Talwinaha, or Little Johnson, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Atachsagu, or John Big Tree, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Teskaiy, or John Pierce, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Teaslaegee, or Charles Cornplanter, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Teoncukaweh, or Bob Stevens, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Checanadughtwo, or Little Beard, his mark. [L. S.]
      
      Canada, his x mark. [L. S.]
      
      Sealed and delivered in the presence of
      
      Nat. W. Howell.
      
      Jasper Parrish.
      
      Ch. Carroll.
      
      Horatio Jones.
      
      Done at a treaty held with the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the Seneka nation of Indians at Moscow, in the country of
         Livingston and State of New York, on the third day of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, under the authority
         of the United States. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, the day and year aforesaid, by virtue of
         a commission issued under the seal of the commonwealth of Massachusetts, bearing date the 31st day of August, A. D. 1815,
         pursuant to a resolution of the legislature of the said commonwealth, passed the eleventh day of March, one thousand seven
         hundred and ninety-one.
      
      
      N. Gorham, Superintendent.
      
      I have attended a treaty of the Seneka nation of Indians held at Moscow in the county of Livingston and State of New York,
         on the third day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, when the within instrument
         was duly executed in my presence, by the sachems, chiefs, and warriors of the said nation, being fairly and properly understood
         and transacted by all the parties of Indians concerned, and declared to be done to their full satisfaction. I do therefore
         certify and approve the same.
      
      
      Ch. Carroll, Commissioner.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
