
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE SHAWNEE, 1786.
         
         Jan. 31, 1786. | 7 Stat., 26.
         
         Page Images:
            16 | 17 | 18
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Hostages delivered till prisoners are restored.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians acknowledge the right of United States to territory ceded by Great Britain.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     To deliver up criminals.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     To give notice of designs against United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to give peace to the Shawanoe nation.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Allot to them certain lands.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     No citizen of United States to settle on Indian lands.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 17
      
      Articles of a Treaty concluded at the Mouth of the Great Miami, on the North-western Bank of the Ohio, the thirty-first day
            of January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six, between the Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States of America,
            of the one Part, and the Chiefs and Warriors of the Shawanoe Nation, of the other Part.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      THREE hostages shall be immediately delivered to the Commissioners, to remain in the possession of the United States until all the prisoners, white
         and black, taken in the late war from among the citizens of the United States, by the Shawanoe nation, or by any other Indian
         or Indians residing in their towns, shall be restored.
      
      
      Page 17
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The Shawanoe nation do acknowledge the United States to be the sole and absolute sovereigns of all the territory ceded to them by a treaty of
         peace, made between them and the King of Great Britain, the fourteenth day of January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-four.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      If any Indian or Indians of the Shawanoe nation, or any other Indian or Indians residing in their towns, shall commit murder
         or robbery on, or do any injury to the citizens of the United States, or any of them, that nation shall deliver such offender or offenders to the officer commanding the nearest post of the United States, to be punished according
         to the ordinances of Congress; and in like manner, any citizen of the United States, who shall do an injury to any Indian
         of the Shawanoe nation, or to any other Indian or Indians residing in their towns, and under their protection, shall be punished
         according to the laws of the United States.The Shawanoe nation having knowledge of the intention of any nation or body of Indians to make war on the citizens of the
         United States, or of their counselling together for that purpose, and neglecting to give information thereof to the commanding
         officer of the nearest post of the United States, shall be considered as parties in such war, and be punished accordingly:
         and the United States shall in like manner inform the Shawanoes of any injury designed against them.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      The United States do grant peace to the Shawanoe nation, and do receive them into their friendship and protection.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      The United States do allot to the Shawanoe nation, lands within their territory to live and hunt upon, beginning at the south line of the lands
         allotted to the Wiandots and Delaware nations, at the place where the main branch of the Great Miami, which falls into the
         Ohio, intersects said line; then down the river Miami, to the fork of that river, next below the old fort which was taken
         by the French in one thousand seven hundred and fifty-two; thence due west to the river de la Panse; then down that river
         to the river Wabash, beyond which lines none of the citizens of the United States shall settle, nor disturb the Shawanoes
         in their settlement and possessions; and the Shawanoes do relinquish to the United States, all title, or pretence of title,
         they ever had to the lands east, west and south, of the east, west and south lines before described.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 7.
      
      If any citizen or citizens of the United States, shall presume to settle upon the lands allotted to the Shawanoes by this treaty, he or they shall be put out of the protection of the United
         States.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the parties hereunto have affixed their hands and seals, the day and year first above mentioned.
      
      G. Clark, [L. S.]
      
      Richard Butler, [L. S.]
      
      Samuel H. Parsons, [L. S.]
      
      Aweecony, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Kakawipilathy, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Malunthy, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Musquaconocah, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Meanymsecah, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Waupaucowela, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Nihipeewa, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Nihinessicoe, his x mark, [L. S.]
      Page 18
      
      Attest:
      
      Alexander Campbell, Secretary Commissioners.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      W. Finney, Maj. B. B.
      
      Thos. Doyle, Capt. B. B.
      
      Nathan McDowell, Ensign,
      
      John Saffenger,
      
      Henry Govy,
      
      Kagy Galloway, his x mark,
      
      John Boggs,
      
      Samuel Montgomery,
      
      Daniel Elliott,
      
      James Rinker,
      
      Nathaniel Smith,
      
      Joseph Suffrein, his x mark, or Kemepemo Shawno,
      
      Isaac Zane, (Wyandot) his x mark,
      
      The Half King of the Wyandots,
               The Crane of the Wyandots,
                  their xmark,
      
      Capt. Pipe, of the Delawares, his x mark,
      
      Capt. Bohongehelas, his x mark,
      
      Tetebockshicka, his x mark,
      
      The Big Cat of the Delawares, his x mark,
      
      Pierre Droullar.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
