
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE SHOSHONI—NORTHWESTERN BANDS, 1863.
         
         July 30, 1863. | 13 Stats., 663. | Ratified Mar. 7, 1864 | Proclaimed Jan. 17, 1865.
         
         Page Images:
            850 | 851
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Peace and friendship.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty of Fort Bridger assented to.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Annuity increased.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Receipt.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Boundary of Pokatello's country.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 850
      
      Articles of agreement made at Box Elder, in Utah Territory, this thirtieth day of July, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and
            sixty-three, by and between the United States of America, represented by Brigadier-General P. Edward Connor, commanding the
            military district of Utah, and James Duane Doty, commissioner, and the northwestern bands of the Shoshonee Indians, represented
            by their chiefs and warriors:
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      It is agreed that friendly and amicable relations shall be re-established between the bands of the Shoshonee Nation, parties
         hereto, and the United States, and it is declared that a firm and perpetual peace shall be henceforth maintained between the said bands and the United States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The treaty concluded at Fort Bridger on the 2nd day of July, 1863; between the United States and the Shoshonee Nation, being read
         and fully interpreted and explained to the said chiefs and warriors, they do hereby give their full and free assent to all
         of the provisions of said treaty, and the same are hereby adopted as a part of this agreement, and the same shall be binding
         upon the parties hereto.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      In consideration of the stipulations in the preceding articles, the United States agree to increase the annuity to the Shoshonee Nation five thousand dollars, to be paid in the manner provided in said treaty. And the said
         northwestern bands hereby acknowledge to have received of the United States, at the signing of these articles, provisions and goods to the amount of two thousand dollars,
         to relieve their immediate necessities, the said bands having been reduced by the war to a state of utter destitution.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The country claimed by Pokatello, for himself and his people, is bounded on the west by Raft River and on the east by the Porteneuf Mountains.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      Nothing herein contained shall be construed or taken to admit any other or greater title or interest in the lands embraced
         within the territories described in said treaty in said tribes or bands of Indians than existed in them upon the acquisition
         of said territories from Mexico by the laws thereof.
      
      
      Page 851
      
      
      
      Done at Box Elder, this thirtieth day of July, A. D. 1863.
      
      James Duane Doty,Governor and acting superintendent of Indianaffairs in Utah Territory.
      
      P. Edw. Connor,Brigadier-General U. S. Volunteers, commandingDistrict of Utah.
      
      Pokatello, his x mark, chief.
      
      Toomontso, his x mark, chief.
      
      Sanpitz, his x mark, chief.
      
      Tosowitz, his x mark, chief.
      
      Yahnoway, his x mark, chief.
      
      Weerahsoop, his x mark, chief.
      
      Pahragoosahd, his x mark, chief.
      
      Tahkwetoonah, his x mark, chief.
      
      Omashee, (John Pokatelloaposs brother,) his x mark, chief.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      Robt. Pollock, colonel Third Infantry, C. V.
      
      M. G. Lewis, captain Third Infantry, C. V.
      
      S. E. Jocelyn, first lieutenant Third Infantry, C. V.
      
      Jos. A. Gebone, Indian interpreter.
      
      John Barnard, jr., his x mark, special interpreter.
      
      Willis H. Boothe, special interpreter.
      
      Horace Wheat.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
