
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY OF FORT LARAMIE WITH SIOUX, ETC., 1851.
         
         Sept. 17, 1851. | 11 Stats., p. 749.
         
         Page Images:
            594 | 595 | 596
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Peace to be observed.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Roads may be established.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to be protected.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Depredations on whites to be satisfied.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Boundaries of lands.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Sioux.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Grosventre, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Assiniboin.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Blackfoot.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Crow.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cheyenne and Arapaho.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Rights in other lands.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Head chiefs of said tribes.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Annuities.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Annuities suspended by violation of treaty.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 594
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Fort Laramie, in the Indian Territory, between D. D. Mitchell, superintendent of
            Indian affairs, and Thomas Fitzpatrick, Indian agent, commissioners specially appointed and authorized by the President of
            the United States, of the first part, and the chiefs, headmen, and braves of the following Indian nations, residing south
            of the Missouri River, east of the Rocky Mountains, and north of the lines of Texas and New Mexico, viz, the Sioux or Dahcotahs,
            Cheyennes, Arrapahoes, Crows. Assinaboines, Gros-Ventre Mandans, and Arrickaras, parties of the second part, on the seventeenth
            day of September, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one.a
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The aforesaid nations, parties to this treaty. having assembled for the purpose of establishing and confirming peaceful relations
         amongst themselves, do hereby covenant and agree to abstain in future from all hostilities whatever against each other, to
         maintain good faith and friendship in all their mutual intercourse, and to make an effective and lasting peace.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The aforesaid nations do hereby recognize the right of the United States Government to establish roads, military and other posts, within their respective territories.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      In consideration of the rights and privileges acknowledged in the preceding article, the United States bind themselves to protect the aforesaid Indian nations against the commission of all depredations by the people of the said United States,
         after the ratification of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The aforesaid Indian nations do hereby agree and bind themselves to make restitution or satisfaction for any wrongs committed, after the ratification of this treaty, by any band or individual of their people, on
         the people of the United States, whilst lawfully residing in or passing through their respective territories.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      The aforesaid Indian nations do hereby recognize and acknowledge the following tracts of country, included within the metes
         and boundaries hereinafter designated, as their respective territories, viz: The territory of the Sioux or Dahcotah Nation, commencing the mouth of the White Earth River, on the Missouri River: thence in a southwesterly
         direction to the forks of the Platte River: thence up the north fork of the Platte River to a point known as the Red Bute,
         or where the road leaves the river; thence along the range of mountains known as the Black Hills, to the head-waters of Heart
         River; thence down Heart River to its mouth; and thence down the Missouri River to the place of beginning. The territory of the Gros Ventre, Mandans, and Arrickaras Nations, commencing at the mouth of Heart River; thence up the Missouri River to the
         mouth of the Yellowstone River; thence up the Yellowstone River to the mouth of Powder River in a southeasterly direction,
         to the head-waters of the Little Missouri River; thence along the Black Hills to the head of Heart River, and thence down
         Heart River to the place of beginning. The territory of the Assinaboin Nation, commencing at the mouth of Yellowstone River; thence up the Missouri River to the mouth of the Muscle-shell
         River; thence from the mouth of the Muscle-shell River in a southeasterly direction until it strikes the head-waters of
      
      
      
      
         aThis treaty as signed was ratified by the Senate with an amendment changing the annuity in Article 7 from fifty to ten years,
               subject to acceptance by the tribes. Assent of all tribes except the Crows was procured (see Upper Platte C., 570, 1853, Indian
               Office) and in subsequent agreements this treaty has been recognized as in force (see post p. 776).
      
      
      
      Page 595
      
      Big Dry Creek; thence down that creek to where it empties into the Yellowstone River, nearly opposite the mouth of Powder
         River, and thence down the Yellowstone River to the place of beginning. The territory of the Blackfoot Nation, commencing at the mouth of Muscle-shell River; thence up the Missouri River to its source; thence along
         the main range of the Rocky Mountains, in a southerly direction, to the head-waters of the northern source of the Yellowstone
         River; thence down the Yellowstone River to the mouth of Twenty-five Yard Creek; thence across to the head-waters of the Muscle-shell
         River, and thence down the Muscle-shell River to the place of beginning. The territory of the Crow Nation, commencing at the mouth of Powder River on the Yellowstone; thence up Powder River to its source; thence along
         the main range of the Black Hills and Wind River Mountains to the head-waters of the Yellowstone River; thence down the Yellowstone
         River to the mouth of Twenty-five Yard Creek; thence to the head waters of the Muscle-shell River; thence down the Muscle-shell
         River to its mouth; thence to the head-waters of Big Dry Creek, and thence to its mouth. The territory of the Cheyennes and Arrapahoes, commencing at the Red Bute, or the place where the road leaves the north fork of the Platte River;
         thence up the north fork of the Platte River to its source; thence along the main range of the Rocky Mountains to the head-waters
         of the Arkansas River; thence down the Arkansas River to the crossing of the Santa Fé road; thence in a northwesterly direction
         to the forks of the Platte River, and thence up the Platte River to the place of beginning. It is, however, understood that, in making this recognition and acknowledgement, the aforesaid Indian nations do not hereby
         abandon or prejudice any rights or claims they may have to other lands; and further, that they do not surrender the privilege of hunting, fishing, or passing over any of the tracts
         of country heretofore described.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      The parties to the second part of this treaty having selected principals or head-chiefs for their respective nations, through whom all national business will hereafter be conducted, do hereby bind themselves
         to sustain said chiefs and their successors during good behavior.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 7.
      
      In consideration of the treaty stipulations, and for the damages which have or may occur by reason thereof to the Indian nations,
         parties hereto, and for their maintenance and the improvement of their moral and social customs, the United States bind themselves
         to deliver to the said Indian nations the sum of fifty thousand dollars per annum for the term of ten years, with the right
         to continue the same at the discretion of the President of the United States for a period not exceeding five years thereafter,
         in provisions, merchandise, domestic animals, and agricultural implements, in such proportions as may be deemed best adapted
         to their condition by the President of the United States, to be distributed in proportion to the population of the aforesaid
         Indian nations.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 8.
      
      It is understood and agreed that should any of the Indian nations, parties to this treaty, violate any of the provisions thereof,
         the United States may withhold the whole or aportion of the annuities mentioned in the preceding article from the nation so offending, until, in the opinion of the President
         of the United States, proper satisfaction shall have been made.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof the said D. D. Mitchell and Thomas Fitzpatrick commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs, headmen, and
         braves, parties hereto, have set their hands and affixed their marks, on the day and at the place first above written.
      
      
      D. D. Mitchell
      
      Thomas Fitzpatrick
      
      Commissioners.
      Page 596
      
          Sioux:
      
      Mah-toe-wha-you-whey, his x mark.
      
      Mah-kah-toe-zah-zah, his x mark.
      
      Bel-o-ton-kah-tan-ga, his x mark.
      
      Nah-ka-pah-gi-gi, his x mark.
      
      Mak-toe-sah-bi-chis, his x mark.
      
      Meh-wha-tah-ni-hans-kah, his x mark.
      
          Cheyennes:
      
      Wah-ha-nis-satta, his x mark.
      
      Voist-ti-toe-vetz, his x mark.
      
      Nahk-ko-me-ien, his x mark.
      
      Koh-kah-y-wh-cum-est, his x mark.
      
          Arrapahoes:
      
      Bè-ah-té-a-qui-sah, his x mark.
      
      Neb-ni-bah-seh-it, his x mark.
      
      Beh-kah-jay-beth-sah-es, his x mark.
      
          Crows:
      
      Arra-tu-ri-sash, his x mark.
      
      Doh-chepit-seh-chi-es, his x mark.
      
          Assinaboines:
      
      Mah-toe-wit-ko, his x mark.
      
      Toe-tah-ki-eh-nan, his x mark.
      
      Mandans and Gros Ventres:
      
      Nochk-pit-shi-toe-pish, his x mark.
      
      She-oh-mant-ho, his x mark.
      
          Arickarees:
      
      Koun-hei-ti-shan, his x mark.
      
      Bi-atch-tah-wetch, his x mark.
      
      In the presence of—
      
      A. B. Chambers, secretary.
      
      S. Cooper, colonel, U. S. Army.
      
      R. H. Chilton, captain, First Drags.
      
      Thomas Duncan, captain, Mounted Riflemen.
      
      Thos. G. Rhett, brevet captain R. M. R.
      
      W. L. Elliott, first lieutenant R. M. R.
      
      C. Campbell, interpreter for Sioux.
      
      John S. Smith, interpreter for Cheyennes.
      
      Robert Meldrum, interpreter for the Crows.
      
      H. Culbertson, interpreter for Assiniboines and Gros Ventres.
      
      Francois L'Etalie, interpreter for Arick arees.
      
      John Pizelle, interpreter for the Arrapahoes.
      
      B. Gratz Brown.
      
      Robert Campbell.
      
      Edmond F. Chouteau.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
