
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE SIOUX OF ST. PETER'S RIVER, 1815.
         
         July 19, 1815. | 7 Stat., 127. | Ratified Dec. 26, 1815.
         
         Page Images:
            114
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Injuries, etc., forgiven.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Perpetual peace and friendship, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Protection of United States acknowledged.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 114
      
      A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded at Portage des Sioux, between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste
            Chouteau, Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, of the
            one part; and the Chiefs and Warriors of the Siouxs of the river St. Peter's, on the part and behalf of their said Tribe,
            on the other part.
      
      THE parties being desirous of re-establishing peace and friendship between the United States and the said tribe, and of being
         placed in all things, and in every respect, on the same footing upon which they stood before the late war between the United
         States and Great Britain, have agreed to the following articles:
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      Every injury or act of hostility committed by one or either of the contracting parties against the other, shall be mutually forgiven
         and forgot.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing
         the tribe of the Siouxs of the river St. Peter's; and all the friendly relations that existed between them before the war,
         shall be, and the same are hereby, renewed.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and their said tribe, do hereby acknowledge themselves and their tribe to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other power, nation, or
         sovereign, whatsoever.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said William Clark, Ninian Edwards and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners as aforesaid, and the chiefs
         and warriors of the aforesaid tribe, have hereunto subscribed their names and affixed their seals, this nineteenth day of
         July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, and of the independence of the United States the fortieth.
      
      
      William Clark, [L. S.]
      
      Ninian Edwards, [L. S.]
      
      Auguste Chouteau, [L. S.]
      
      Enigmanee, that Flies as he Walks, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Wasoukapaha, the Falling Hail, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Champisaba, the Black War Club, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Manpinsaba, the Black Cloud, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Tatarnaza, the Iron Wind, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Nankanandee, who puts his foot in it, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Done at Portage des Sioux, in the presence of—
      
      R. Wash, secretary of the commission,
      
      John Miller, colonel Third Infantry,
      
      H. Paul, C. T. of the C.
      
      John T. Chunn, brevet major of the U. S.Army,
      
      Edmund Hall, lieutenant late Twenty-eighth Infantry,
      
      Manuel Lisa, agent,
      
      Thomas Forsyth, Indian agent,
      
      J. W. Johnson, United States Factor and Indian agent.
      
      Maurice Blondeaux,
      
      Louis Decouagne,
      
      John A. Cameron,
      
      Louis Dorion,
      
      Jacques Matte,
      
      sworn interpreters.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
