
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE SIOUX—YANKTONAI BAND, 1865.
         
         Oct. 20, 1865. | 14 Stat., 735. | Ratified, Mar. 5, 1866. | Proclaimed, Mar. 17, 1866.
         
         Page Images:
            903 | 904
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Authority and jurisdiction of the United States acknowledged.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Persons and property of other tribes not to be first attacked.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Controversies to be submitted to the arbitrament of the President.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to withdraw from overland routes.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payments.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Proviso.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Individual Indians locating on lands to be protected.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payments for agricultural, etc., purposes.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Farmer, blacksmith, and teachers.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Amendments to be binding.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Execution.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 903
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Fort Sully, in the Territory of Dakota, by and between Newton Edmunds, governor
            and ex-officio superintendent of Indian affairs of Dakota Territory, Edward B. Taylor, superintendent of Indian affairs for
            the northern superintendency, Major-General S. R. Curtis, Brigadier-General H. H. Sibley, Henry W. Reed, and Orrin Guernsey,
            commissioners on the part of the United States, duly appointed by the President, and the undersigned chiefs and head-men of
            the Yanktonai band of Dakota or Sioux Indians.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The Yanktonai band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, represented in council, hereby acknowledge themselves to be subject to the
         exclusive jurisdiction and authority of the United States, and hereby obligate and bind themselves, individually and collectively, not only to cease
         all hostilities against the persons and property of its citizens, but to use their influence, and, if requisite, physical force, to prevent other bands
         of Dakota Indians, or other adjacent tribes, from making hostile demonstrations against the Government or people of the United
         States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      Inasmuch as the Government of the United States is desirous to arrest the effusion of blood between the Indian tribes within
         its jurisdiction hitherto at war with each other, the Yanktonai band of Dakota or Sioux Indians represented in council, anxious
         to respect the wishes of the Government, hereby agree to discontinue, for the future all attacks upon the persons or property
         of other tribes, unless first attacked by them, and to use their influence to promote peace everywhere in the region occupied
         or frequented by them.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      All controversies or differences arising between the Yanktonai band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, represented in council, and other
         tribes of Indians, involving the question of peace or war, shall be submitted for the arbitrament of the President, or such
         person or persons as may be designated by him, and the decision or award shall be faithfully observed by the said band represented
         in council.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The said band, represented in council shall withdraw from the routes overland already established, or hereafter to be established, through their country; and in consideration
         thereof, the Government of the United States agree to pay the said band the sum of thirty dollars for each lodge or family, annually, for twenty years, in such articles as the
         Secretary of the Interior may direct: Provided, That said band, so represented in council, shall faithfully conform to the requirements of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      Should any individual or individuals, or portion of the band of the Yanktonai band of Dakota or Sioux Indians represented in council,
         desire hereafter to locate permanently upon any land claimed by said band for the purposes of agricultural or other similar
         pursuits, it is hereby agreed by the parties to this treaty that such
      
      
      Page 904
      
      individuals shall be protected in such location against any annoyance or molestation on the part of whites or Indians; and
         whenever twenty lodges or families of the Yanktonai band shall have located on lands for agricultural purposes, and signified the same to their agents or superintendent, they, as well as other families so locating,
         shall receive the sum of twenty-five dollars annually, for five years, for each family, in agricultural implements and improvements;
         and when one hundred lodges or families shall have so engaged in agricultural pursuits, they shall be entitled to a farmer and blacksmith, at the expense of the Government, as also teachers, at the option of the Secretary of the Interior,
         whenver deemed necessary.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      Any amendment or modification of this treaty by the Senate of the United States shall be considered final and binding upon the
         said band, represented in council, as a part of this treaty, in the same manner as if it had been subsequently presented and
         agreed to by the chiefs and head-men of said band.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the Commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and headmen of the said Onkpahpah band
         of Dakota or Sioux Indians, have hereunto set their hands this twentieth day of October, eighteen hundred and sixty-five,
         after the contents had previously been read, interpreted, and explained to the chiefs and headmen.
      
      
      Newton Edmunds,
      
      Edward B. Taylor,
      
      S. R. Curtis, major-general,
      
      H. H. Sibley, brigadier-general,
      
      Henry W. Reed,
      
      Orrin Guernsey.
      
          Chiefs:
      
      Ah-ke-tche-tah-hon-skah, The Tall Soldier, his x mark.
      
      Mah-to-che-kah, The Little Bear, his x mark.
      
      Muzzah-e-nom-pah, The Iron that Comes Out, his x mark.
      
      Wak-ke-an-skah, The White Thunder, his x mark.
      
          Chief Soldiers:
      
      Mah-to-nom-pah, The Two Bears, his x mark.
      
      Cha-tan-me-ne-o-me-nee, The Whirling Heart, his x mark.
      
          Chiefs:
      
      Ma-to-chewicksa, Bear's Rib, his x mark.
      
      Running Antelope, Ta-to-kee-un, his x mark.
      
      The Man that Has a Heart for All, O-en-e-chan-ta-u-can, his x mark.
      
          Soldiers:
      
      Thunder Hawk, Cha-ton-wa-ke-on, his x mark.
      
      Iron Horn, Ha-ma-za, his x mark.
      
      Plenty Crows, Con-ge-o-ta, his x mark.
      
      The Man that Fears the Eagle, Wam-bel-le-co-ke-pa, his x mark.
      
      Spotted Buffalo Bull, Ta-tanka-ge-lis-ka, his x mark.
      
      Signed by the Commissioners on the part of the United States, and by the chiefs and headmen, after the treaty had been fully
         read, interpreted, and explained in our presence:—
      
      
      Hez. L. Hosmer, chief justice of Montana Territory.
      
      S. S. Curtis, brevet lieutenant colonel U. S. Volunteers.
      
      E. F. Ruth, secretary of Commission.
      
      W. S. Woods, surgeon U. S. Volunteers.
      
      C. S. Morrison.
      
      O. E. Guernsey.
      
      Charles Degre, his x mark, interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
