
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE SIOUX—MINICONJOU BAND, 1865.
         
         Oct. 10, 1865. | 14 Stats., 695.| Ratified Mar. 5, 1866. | Proclaimed Mar. 17, 1866.
         
         Page Images:
            883 | 884
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Jurisdiction and authority of the United States acknowledged, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Persons and property of other tribes not to be first attacked.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Controversies between tribes to be submitted to the President for arbitrament, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to withdraw from overland routes.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment to the Indians.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Individual Indians locating on lands to be protected.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Amendments to be binding.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 883
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Fort Sully, in the Territory of Dakota, by and between Newton Edmunds, governor
            and ex-officio superintendent of Indian affairs of Dakota Territory; Edward B. Taylor, superintendent of Indian affairs for
            the northern superintendency; Major-General S. R. Curtis, Brigadier-General H. H. Sibley, Henry W. Reed, and Orin Guernsey,
            commissioners on the part of the United States, duly appointed by the President, and the undersigned chiefs and head-men of
            the Minneconjon band of Dakota or Sioux Indians.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The Minneconjon band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, represented in council, hereby acknowledge themselves to be subject to the
         exclusive jurisdiction and authority of the United States, and hereby obligate and bind themselves individually and collectively, not
         only to cease all hostilities against the persons and property of its citizens, but to use their influence, and, if requisite,
         physical force, to prevent other bands of the Dakota or Sioux, or other adjacent tribes, from making hostile demonstrations
         against the Government or people of the United States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      Inasmuch as the Government of the United States is desirous to arrest the effusion of blood between the Indian tribes within
         its jurisdiction hitherto at war with each other, the Minneconjon band of Dakotas or Sioux, represented in council, anxious
         to respect the wishes of the Government, hereby agree and bind themselves to discontinue for the future all attacks upon the
         persons or property of other tribes, unless first assailed by them, and to use their influence to promote peace everywhere
         in the region occupied or frequented by them.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      All controversies or differences arising between the Minneconjon band of Dakotas or Sioux, represented in council, and other tribes
         of Indians, involving the question of peace or war, shall be submitted to the arbitrament of the President, or such person
         or persons as may be designated by him, and the decision or award faithfully observed by the said band represented in council.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The said band, represented in council, shall withdraw from the routes overland already established or hereafter to be established through their country; and in consideration
         thereof the Government of the United States agree to pay the said band the sum of ten thousand dollars annually for twenty years, in such articles as the Secretary of the Interior
         may direct: Provided, That said band, so represented in council, shall faithfully conform to the requirements of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      Should any individual or individuals or portion of the band of the Minneconjon band of Dakotas or Sioux, represented in council,
         desire hereafter to locate permanently upon any part of the lands claimed by the said band for the purpose [of] agricultural
         or other pursuits, it is hereby agreed by the parties to this treaty that such individual or individuals shall be protected in such location against any annoyance or molestation on the part of whites or Indians.
      
      
      Page 884
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      Any amendment or modification of this treaty by the Senate of the United States shall be considered final and binding upon the
         said band, represented in council, as a part of this treaty, in the same manner as if it had been subsequently presented and
         agreed to by the chiefs and head-men of said band.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the Commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and headmen of the said Minneconjon
         band of Dakota or Sioux, have hereunto set their hands, this tenth day of October, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five,
         after the contents had previously been read, interpreted, and explained to the said chiefs and headmen.
      
      
      
      Newton Edmunds,
      
      Edward B. Taylor,
      
      S. R. Curtis, Major-General,
      
      H. H. Sibley, Brigadier-General,
      
      Henry W. Reed,
      
      Orrin Guernsey,
      
      Commissioners on the part of the United States.
      
      Ha-wah-zee-dan, The Lone Horn, his x mark, 1st chief.
      
      Tah-ke-chah-hoosh-tay, The Lame Deer, his x mark, 1st chief.
      
      Kee-yam-e-i-a, One that flies when going, his mark, chief.
      
      Ha-il-o-kah-chah-skah, White Young Bull, his x mark, chief.
      
      Ke-yar-cum-pee, Give him Room, his x mark, chief.
      
      Ha-har-skah-kah, Long Horn, his x mark, chief.
      
      He-han-we-chak-chah, The Old Owl, his x mark, chief.
      
      Wah-chee-ha-skah, White Feather, his x mark, chief.
      
      Tah-ton-kah-wak-kanto, The High Bull, his x mark, soldier.
      
      Mah-to-chat-kah, The Left-handed Bear, his x mark, soldier.
      
      Chan-wah-pa, The Tree in Leaf, his x mark, soldier.
      
      To-kalla-doo-tah, The Red Fox, his x mark, soldier.
      
      Cha-tan-sappah, The Black Hawk, his x mark, soldier.
      
      Muck-a-pee-ah-to, The Blue Cloud, his x mark.
      
      Signed by the Commissioners on the part of the United States, and by
         the chiefs and headmen, after the treaty had been fully read, interpreted,
         and explained in our presence:
      
      
      A. W. Hubbard, M. C. Sixth district Iowa.
      
      S. S. Curtis, Major Second Colorado Cavalry, Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel U. S. Volunteers.
      
      Chas. C. G. Thornton, Lieutenant-Colonel Fourth U. S. Volunteers.
      
      E. F. Ruth, Secretary of Commission.
      
      R. R. Hitt, Reporter of Commission.
      
      Thos. D. Maurice, Late Major First Missouri Light Artillery.
      
      W. Mott, Captain and C. S.
      
      Zephier Rencontre, his x mark, interpreter.
      
      Charles Degres, his x mark, interpreter.
      
      The following chiefs came into council on the 20th Oct. and desired
         to sign the treaty. They are represented as always friendly to the
         whites, and have, therefore, been away from most of the tribe.
      
      
      Hah-sah-ne-na-maza, One Iron Horse, his x mark.
      
      To-kio-wi-chack-a-ta, The One that Kills the First on
               Hand, his x mark.
      
          Attest:
      
      S. S. Curtis, Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel U. S. Volunteers.
      
      Hez. L. Hosmer, Chief Justice of Montana Territory.
      
      Charles Degres, his x mark.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
