
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE SIOUX—SANS ARCS BAND, 1865.
         
         Oct. 20, 1865. | 14 Stat., 731. | Ratified Mar. 5, 1866. | Proclaimed Mar. 17, 1866.
         
         Page Images:
            899 | 900 | 901
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Authority and jurisdiction of the United States acknowledged.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Persons and property of other tribes not to be first attacked.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Controversies to be submitted to the arbitrament of the President.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to withdraw from overland routes.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payments.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Proviso.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Individual Indians locating upon the lands to be protected.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payments for agricultural, etc., implements.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Farmer and blacksmith.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Teachers.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Amendments to be binding.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 899
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded at Fort Sully, in the Territory of Dakota, by and between Newton Edmunds, governor
            and ex-officio superintendent of Indian affairs of Dakota Territory, Edward B. Taylor, superintendent of Indian affairs for
            the northern superintendency, Major-General S. R. Curtis, Brigadier-General H. H. Sibley, Henry W. Reed, and Orrin Guernsey,
            commissioners on the part of the United States, duly appointed by the President, and the undersigned chiefs and head-men of
            the Sans Arcs band of Dakota or Sioux Indians.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The Sans Arcs band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, represented in council, hereby acknowledge themselves to be subject to the
         exclusive jurisdiction and authority of the United States, and hereby obligate and bind themselves, individually and collectively, not
         only to cease all hostilities against the persons and property of its citizens, but to use their influence, and, if requisite, physical force, to prevent other bands
         of Dakota Indians, or other adjacent tribes, from making hostile demonstrations against the Government or people of the United
         States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      Inasmuch as the Government of the United States is desirous to arrest the effusion of blood between the Indian tribes within
         its jurisdiction hitherto at war with each other, the Sans Arcs band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, represented in council, anxious
         to respect the wishes of the Government, hereby agree to discontinue for the future all attacks upon the persons or property
         of other tribes, unless first attacked by them, and to use their influence to promote peace everywhere in the region occupied
         or frequented by them.
      
      
      Page 900
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      All controversies or differences arising between the Sans Arcs band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, involving the question of peace
         or war, shall be submitted for the arbitrament of the President, or such person or persons as may be designated by him, and
         the decision or award shall be faithfully observed by the said band represented in council.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The said band represented in council shall withdraw from the route overland already established, or hereafter to be established, through their country; and in consideration
         thereof the Government of the United States agree to pay the said band the sum of thirty dollars for each lodge or family, annually, for
         twenty years, in such articles as the Secretary of the Interior may direct: Provided, That said band so represented in council shall faithfully conform to the requirements of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      Should any individual or individuals or portion of the band of the Sans Arcs band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, represented in council,
         desire hereafter to locate permanently upon any land claimed by said band for the purposes of agricultural or other similar
         pursuits, it is hereby agreed by the parties to this treaty, that such individuals shall be protected in such location against
         any annoyance or molestation on the part of whites or Indians; and whenever twenty lodges or families of the Sans Arcs band
         shall have located on land for agricultural purposes, and signified the same to their agent or superintendent, they, as well
         as other families so locating, shall receive the sum of twenty-five dollars annually, for five years, for each family, in
         agricultural implements and improvements; and when one hundred lodges or families shall have so engaged in agricultural pursuits
         they shall be entitled to a farmer and blacksmith, at the expense of the Government; as also teachers, at the option of the Secretary of the Interior, whenever deemed necessary.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      Any amendment or modification of this treaty, by the Senate of the United States, shall be considered final and binding upon the
         said band represented in council as a part of this treaty, in the same manner as if it had been subsequently presented and
         agreed to by the chiefs and head-men of said band.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the Commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and headmen of the said Sans Arcs
         band of Dakota or Sioux Indians, have hereunto set their hands this twentieth day of October, eighteen hundred and sixty-five,
         after the contents had previously been read, interpreted, and explained to the chiefs and headmen.
      
      
      Newton Edmunds,
      
      Edward B. Taylor,
      
      S. R. Curtis, major-general,
      
      Henry H. Sibley, brigadier-general,
      
      Henry W. Reed,
      
      Orrin Guernsey.
      
          Chiefs:
      
      Wah-mun-dee-o-pee-doo-tah, The War Eagle with the Red Tail, his x mark.
      
      Cha-tau-'hne, Yellow Hawk, his x mark.
      
      Shon-kah-we-to-ko, The Fool Dog, his x mark.
      
          Chief soldiers:
      
      Chan-tay-mah-to, The Bear's Heart, his x mark.
      
      Tah-ko-ko-ke-pish-nee, The Man that Fears Nothing, his x mark.
      
      Nup-che-unk, The Nine, his x mark.
      
      Mah-to-nuk-kah, The Bear's Ears, his x mark.
      
      Chan-desh-kah-sappah, The Black Hoop, his x mark.
      
      Ze-te-kah-nah-sappee, The Bird Necklace, his x mark.
      Page 901
      
      Signed by the Commissioners on the part of the United States, and by the chiefs and headmen after the treaty had been fully
         read, interpreted, and explained, in our presence:
      
      
      Hez. L. Hosmer, chief justice of Montana Territory.
      
      S. S. Curtis, brevet lieutenant-colonel, U. S. Volunteers.
      
      E. F. Ruth, secretary of Commission.
      
      W. S. Woods, surgeon, U. S. Volunteers.
      
      C. S. Morrison,
      
      O. E. Guernsey,
      
      Charles Degre, his x mark, interpreter.
      
      Chief Crow Feather, Con-ge-we-a-ka, his x mark.
      
      Gray Hair, Pa-he-sa, his x mark.
      
      Red Hair, Pa-he-sha, his x mark.
      
      The Shield Eagle, Wa-chan-ka-wam-ba-lee, his x mark.
      
      Black Bear, Ma-to-sapa, his x mark.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
