
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE SIOUX, 1837.
         
         Sept. 29, 1837. | 7 Stat., 538. | Proclamation, June 15, 1838.
         
         Page Images:
            493 | 494
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of land to the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Consideration therefor.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     $300,000 to be invested for Indians.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     $110,000 for persons of mixed blood.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment of Indian debts.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Annuity.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Agricultural implements, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Improvement of lands.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Provisions.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Goods.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 493
      
      Articles of a treaty, made at the City of Washington, between Joel R.Poinsett, thereto specially authorized by the President
            of the United States, and certain chiefs and braves of the Sioux nation of Indians.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The chiefs and braves representing the parties having an interest therein, cede to the United States all their land, east of the Mississippi river, and all their islands in the said river.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the cession contained in the preceding article, the United States agree to the following stipulations on
         their part.First. To invest the sum of $300,000 (three hundred thousand dollars) in such safe and profitable State stocks as the President may
         direct, and to pay to the chiefs and braves as aforesaid, annually, forever, an income of not less than five per cent. thereon;
         a portion of said interest, not exceeding one third, to be applied in such manner as the President may direct, and the residue
         to be paid in specie, or in such other manner, and for such objects, as the proper authorities of the tribe may designate.Second. To pay to the relatives and friends of the chiefs and braves, as aforesaid, having not less than one quarter of Sioux blood, $110,000
      
      
      Page 494
      
      (one hundred and ten thousand dollars,) to be distributed by the proper authorities of the tribe, upon principles to be determined
         by the chiefs and braves signing this treaty, and the War Department.Third. To apply the sum of $90,000 (ninety thousand dollars) to the payment of just debts of the Sioux Indians, interested in the lands herewith ceded.Fourth. To pay to the chiefs and braves as aforesaid an annuity for twenty years of $10,000 (ten thousand dollars) in goods, to be purchased under the direction of the President,
         and delivered at the expense of the United States.Fifth. To expend annually for twenty years, for the benefit of Sioux Indians, parties to this treaty, the sum of $8,250 (eight
         thousand two hundred and fifty dollars) in the purchase of medicines, agricultural implements and stock, and for the support of a physician, farmers, and blacksmiths, and for other beneficial
         objects.Sixth. In order to enable the Indians aforesaid to break up and improve their lands, the United States will supply, as soon as practicable, after the ratification of this treaty, agricultural
         implements, mechanics' tools, cattle, and such other articles as may be useful to them, to an amount not exceeding $10,000,
         (ten thousand dollars.)Seventh. To expend annually, for twenty years, the sum of $5,500 (five thousand five hundred dollars) in the purchase of provisions, to be delivered at the expense of the United States.Eighth. To deliver to the chiefs and braves signing this treaty, upon their arrival at St. Louis, $6,000 (six thousand dollars)
         in goods.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      [Stricken out by Senate.]
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      This treaty shall be binding on the contracting parties	as soon as it shall be ratified by the United States.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Joel R. Poinsett, and the undersigned chiefs and braves of the Sioux nation, have hereunto
         set their hands, at the City of Washington, this 29th day of September A. D. 1837.
      
      
      J. R. Poinsett.
      
          Medawakantons:
      
      Tah-tape-saah, The Upsetting Wind,
      
      Wah-keah-tun-kah, Big Thunder,
      
      Mah-zah-hoh-tah, Grey Iron,
      
      Tautunga-munne, Walking Buffalo,
      
      Eu-hah-kaakow, He that comes last,
      
      Mah-kuah-pah, he that shakes the Earth,
      
      Tah-mah-zah-hoh-wash-taa, The Iron of
               handsome voice,
      
      Watt-chu-dah, The Dancer,
      
      Mah-zah-tunkah, The Big Iron,
      
      Mau-po-koah-munnee, He that runs after
               the clouds,
      
      Tah-chunk-wash-taa, Good Road,
      
      Mare-pu-ah-nasiah, Standing Cloud,
      
      Koi-moko, Afloat,
      
      Mau-pu-wee-chastah, White Man,
      
      Mau-pu-ah-mah-zah, Iron Cloud,
      
      Tah-chunek-oh-dutah, The Red Road,
      
      Wasson-wee-chastish-nee, The Bad Hail,
      
      Hoe-yah-pah, the Eagle Head
      
      Annon-ge-nasiah, He that Stands on Both
               sides,
      
      Chaudus-ka-mumee, the Walking Circle,
      
      Tee-oh-du-tah, the Red Lodge.
      
      In presence of—
      
      Chauncy Bush, secretary.
      
      Mahlon Dickerson, Secretary of the Navy.
      
      W. J. Worth, lieutenant-colonel.
      
      Geo. W. Jones, of Wisconsin.
      
      Lau. Taliaferro, U. S. agent at St. Peters.
      
      Wm. Hawley.
      
      C. A. Harris, Commissioner of Indian
               Affairs.
      
      S. Cooper, chief clerk War Department.
      
      D. Kurtz, chief clerk Indian Office.
      
      Charles Calvert.
      
      S. Campbell, interpreter.
      
      (To the Indian names are subjoined marks.)
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
