
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         AGREEMENT WITH THE SISSETON AND WAHPETON BANDS OF SIOUX INDIANS, 1872.
         
         September 20, 1872. | Unratified. Indian Office, Sisseton, S. 247 (1872). | See 1874, c. 389, 18 Stat., 167.
         
         Page Images:
            1057
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Sections 3 to 9 inclusive stricken out by amended agreement following.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 1057
      
      Whereas, the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Dakota or Sioux Indians made and concluded a treaty with the United States, at the city
         of Washington, D. C., on the 19th day of February, A. D. 1867, which was ratified, with certain amendments, by the Senate
         of the United States on the 15th day of April, 1868, and finally promulgated by the President of the United States on the
         2d day of May, in the year aforesaid, by which the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Sioux Indians ceded to the United States
         certain privileges and rights supposed to belong to said bands in the territory described in article two (2) of said treaty,
         andWhereas, it is desirable that all said territory, except the portion thereof comprised in what is termed the permanent reservations,
         particularly described in articles three (3) and four (4) of said treaty, shall be ceded absolutely to the United States,
         upon such consideration as in justice and equity should be paid therefore by the United States; and,Whereas, said territory, now proposed to be ceded, is no longer available to said Indians for the purposes of the chase, and such
         value or consideration is essentially necessary in order to enable said bands interested therein to cultivate portions of
         said permanent reservations, and become wholly self-supporting by the cultivation of the soil and other pursuits of husbandry:
         therefore, the said bands, represented in said treaty, and parties thereto, by their chiefs and head-men, now assembled in
         council, do propose to M. N. Adams, William H. Forbes, and James Smith, jr., commissioners on behalf of the United States,
         as follows:First. To cede, sell, and relinquish to the United States all their right, title, and interest in and to all lands and territory,
         particularly described in article two (2) of said treaty, as well as all lands in the Territory of Dakota to which they have
         title or interest, excepting the said tracts particularly described and bounded in articles three (3) and four (4) of said
         treaty, which last-named tracts and territory are expressly reserved as permanent reservations for occupancy and cultivation,
         as contemplated by articles eight, (8,) nine, (9,) and ten (10) of said treaty.Second. That, in consideration of said cession and relinquishment, the United States shall advance and pay, annually, for the term
         of ten (10) years from and after the acceptance by the United States of the proposition herein submitted, eighty thousand
         (80,000) dollars, to be expended under the direction of the President of the United States, on the plan and in accordance
         with the provisions of the treaty aforesaid, dated February 19, 1867, for goods and provisions, for the erection of manual-labor
         and public school-houses, and for the support of manual-labor and public schools, and in the erection of mills, blacksmiths-shops,
         and other workshops, and to aid in opening farms, breaking land, and fencing the same, and in furnishing agricultural implements,
         oxen, and milch-cows, and such other beneficial objects as may be deemed most conducive to the prosperity and happiness of
         the Sisseton and Wahpeton bands of Dakota or Sioux Indians entitled thereto according to the said treaty of February 19, 1867.
         Such annual appropriation or consideration to be apportioned to the Sisseton and Devil's Lake agencies, in proportion to the
         number of Indians of the said bands located upon the Lake Traverse and Devil's Lake reservations respectively. Such apportionment
         to be made upon the basis of the annual reports or returns of the agents in charge. Said consideration,
      
      
      Page 1058
      
      amounting, in the aggregate, to eight hundred thousand (800,000) dollars, payable as aforesaid, without interest.Third. As soon as may be, the said territory embraced within said reservation described in article four, (4,) (Devil's Lake reservation,)
         shall be surveyed, as Government lands are surveyed, for the purpose of enabling the Indians entitled to acquire permanent
         rights in the soil, as contemplated by article five (5) of said treaty.Fourth. We respectfully request that, in case the foregoing propositions are favorably entertained by the United States, the sale
         of spirituous liquors upon the territory ceded may be wholly prohibited by the United States Government.Fifth. The provisions of article five (5) of the treaty of February 19, 1867, to be modified as follows: An occupancy and cultivation
         of five (5) acres, upon any particular location, for a term of (5) consecutive years shall entitle the party to a patent for
         forty acres; a like occupancy and cultivation of ten (10) acres, to entitle the party to a patent to eighty acres; and a like
         occupancy and cultivation of any tract, to the extent of twenty acres, shall entitle the party so occupying and cultivating
         to a patent for 160 acres of land. Parties who have already selected farms and cultivated the same may be entitled to the
         benefit of this modification. Patents so issued (as hereinbefore set forth) shall authorize a transfer or alienation of such
         lands situate within the Sisseton agency, after the expiration of ten (10) years from this date, and within the Devil's lake
         reservation after the expiration of fifteen (15) years, but not sooner.Sixth. The consideration to be paid, as hereinbefore proposed, is in addition to the provision of article 6 (6) of the treaty of
         February 19, 1867, under which Congress shall appropriate, from time to time, such an amount as may be required to meet the
         necessities of said Indians, to enable them to become civilized.Seventh. Sections-sixteen (16) and thirty-six (36) within the reservations shall be set apart for educational purposes, and all children
         of a suitable age within either reservation shall be compelled to attend school at the discretion of the agents.Eighth. At the expiration of ten (10) years, from this date, all members of said bands under the age of twenty-one years shall receive
         forty acres of land from said permanent reservations in fee simple.Ninth. At the expiration of ten (10) years, the President of the United States shall sell or dispose of all the remaining or unoccupied
         lands in the lake Traverse reservation, (excepting that which may hereafter be set apart for school purposes;) the proceeds
         of the sale of such lands to be expended for the benefit of the members of said bands located on said lake Traverse reservation;
         and, at the expiration of fifteen (15) years, the President shall sell or dispose of all the remaining unoccupied lands (excepting
         that which may be hereafter set apart for school purposes) in the Devil's Lake reservation; the proceeds of the sale of such
         land shall be expended for the benefit of all members of said bands who may be located on the said Devil's Lake reservation.
      
      
      
      Executed at Sisseton agency, Dakota territory, Lake Traverse reservation, this 20th day of September, A. D. 1872.
      
      MOSES N. ADAMS,
      
      WM. H. FORBES,
      
      JAMES SMITH, JR.,
      
          Commissioners.
      
      Gabriel Renville, head chief of Sissetons and Wahpetons.
      
      Wicanipinonpa, chief councilor Wahpetons and Sissetons.
      
      Wasuiciyapi, chief Sisseton band Swantain, his x mark.
      
      Magaiyahe, chief councilor, a soldier, Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Waxicunmaza, chief councilor Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Wakanto, chief councilor or soldier, his x mark.
      
      Ecetukiye.
      
      Ampetuxa, Wahpeton councilor, his x mark.
      
      Rupacokamaza, Wahpeton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Itojanjan, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Inihan, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Michael Renville, chief councilor or soldier.
      
      Ixakiya, Sesseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Paul Mazakutemani, chief councilor.
      
      Edwin Phelps, chief councilor.
      
      Elias Oranwayakapi, chief councilor.
      
      Aojanjanna, second soldier and councilor, his x mark.
      
      Wasincaga, second soldier and councilor, his x mark.
      
      Kampeska, chief soldier Wahpeton, his x mark.
      
      Marpiyakudan, chief Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Matocatka, Wahpeton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Wamdiokiya, Wahpeton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Tanwannonpa, Wahpeton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Hinhanxunna, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Tamazakanna, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Akacitamane, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Wamdiupiduta, chief Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Hokxidanwaxte, chief councilor Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Wasukiye, chief councilor Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Peter Tapatatonka, hereditary chief Wahpetons.
      Page 1059
      
      Tacandupahotanka, chief Wahpetons, his x mark.
      
      Tacaurpipeta, soldier or councilor, his x mark.
      
      Tamniyage, head chief Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Wamdiduta, chief soldier Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Canteryapa, soldier Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Xupehiyu, Wahpeton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Chadoze, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Wakinyanrota, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Cantemaza, Wahpeton chief.
      
      Ecanaginka, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Inimusapa, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Icartaka, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Ximto, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Rdohinhda, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Wicastawakan, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Makaideya, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Mniyatohonaxte, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Akicitaduta, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Cagewanica, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Wanaita, hereditary chief of Sissetons and Cut-Heads, his x mark.
      
      Towaxte, head chief Sissetons, his x mark.
      
      Makanahuza, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Mazakahomni, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Ousepekaga, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Tate, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Cokahdi, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Rupaicasna, Sisseton soldier, his x mark.
      
      Ixkiya, chief soldier, Wahpetons, his x mark.
      
      Witnesses to signatures of above chiefs and soldiers:
      
      H. T. Lovett.
      
      G. H. Hawes.
      
      T. A. Robertson.
      
      G. H. Faribault.
      
      C. P. La Grange.
      
      We hereby certify, on honor, that we have fully explained to the Indians the above instrument, and that the Indians acknowledge
         the same to be well understood by them.
      
      
      T. A. Robertson,
      
      G. H. Faribault,
      
          Interpreters.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
