
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE SIOUX, 1805.
         
         Sept. 23, 1805. | Laws Relating to Indian Affairs, 1883, p. 316. | Ratified Apr. 16, 1808. Never proclaimed by the President.
         
         Page Images:
            1031
         
      
      
      
      
      Page 1031
      
      
      
         Conference Between the United States of America and the Sioux Nation of Indians.*
         
      
      
      
         Whereas, a conference held between the United States of America and the Sioux Nation of Indians, Lieut. Z. M. Pike, of the
         Army of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles, which when
         ratified and approved of by the proper authority, shall be binding on both parties:
         
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      
         That the Sioux Nation grants unto the United States for the purpose of the establishment of military posts, nine miles square
         at the mouth of the river St. Croix, also from below the confluence of the Mississippi and St. Peters, up the Mississippi,
         to include the falls of St. Anthony, extending nine miles on each side of the river. That the Sioux Nation grants to the United
         States, the full sovereignty and power over said districts forever, without any let or hindrance whatsoever.
         
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      That in consideration of the above grants the United States (shall, prior to taking possession thereof, pay to the Sioux two thousand dollars, or deliver the value therof in such goods
            and merchandise as they shall choose).
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The United States promise on their part to permit the Sioux to pass, repass, hunt or make other uses of the said districts,
         as they have formerly done, without any other exception, but those specified in article first.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony hereof, we, the undersigned, have hereunto set our hands and seals, at the mouth of the river St. Peters, on
         the 23rd day of September, one thousand eight hundred and five.
      
      
      Z. M. Pike, [SEAL.]First Lieutenant and Agent at the above conference.   
      
      Le Petit Carbeau, his x mark. [SEAL.]   
      
      Way Aga Enogee, his x mark. [SEAL.]   
      
      
      
         *This treaty does not appear among those printed in the United States Statutes at Large. It was, however, submitted by the
               President to the Senate, March 29, 1808. The Senate committee reported favorably, on the 13th of April, with the following
               amendment to fill the blank in article 2, viz: “After the word ‘States’ in the second article insert the following words:
               ‘shall, prior to taking possession thereof, pay to the Sioux two thousand dollars, or deliver the value thereof in such goods
               and merchandise as they shall choose.’” In this form the Senate, on the 16th of April, 1808, advised and consented to its
               ratification by a unanimous vote.An examination of the records of the State Department fails to indicate any subsequent action by the President in proclaiming
               the ratification of this treaty; but more than twenty-five years subsequent to its approval by the Senate the correspondence
               of the War Department speaks of the cessions of land described therein as an accomplished fact.
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
