
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE UTE, 1868.
         
         Mar. 2, 1868. | 15 Stats., 619. | Ratified, July 25, 1868. | Proclaimed, Nov. 6, 1868.
         
         Page Images:
            990 | 991 | 992 | 993 | 994 | 995 | 996
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Certain provisions of former treaty reaffirmed.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Reservation.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Boundaries.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Only certain persons to reside thereon.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Claims to all other lands released.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Two agencies on the reservation.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Warehouse and other buildings.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Schoolhouse.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Water-power saw mill.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indian agents to make their homes and reside where.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Depredations.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Offenders among the whites.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Wrongdoers among the Indians.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians, heads of families, desirous of commencing farming may select lands.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Tract to be recorded and held in exclusive possession.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Persons not heads of families.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Ute Land-Book.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Survey, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Alienation and descent of property.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Education.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Children to attend school.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Schoolhouses and teachers.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Seeds and agricultural implements.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Instructions from farmer.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Additional blacksmith.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States may withdraw farmers, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Clothing, blankets, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Food, meat, and vegetables.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cows and sheep.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Railways and highways to have right of way.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Teachers and mechanics and their support.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of reservation not to be valid unless, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Appropriations, how to apply and be divided.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Forfeitures by making war.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Those at peace.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 990
      
      Articles of a treaty and agreement made and entered into at Washington City, D. C., on the second day of March, one thousand
            eight hundred and sixty-eight, by and between Nathaniel G. Taylor, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Alexander C. Hunt, governor
            of Colorado Territory and ex-officio superintendent of Indian affairs, and Kit Carson, duly authorized to represent the United
            States, of the one part, and the representatives of the Tabaquache, Muache, Capote, Weeminuche, Yampa, Grand River, and Uintah
            bands of Ute Indians, (whose names are hereto subscribed,) duly authorized and empowered to act for the body of the people
            of said bands, of the other part, witness:
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      All of the provisions of the treaty concluded with the Tabequache band of Utah Indians October seventh, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, as amended by the Senate of the United
         States and proclaimed December fourteenth, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-four, which are not inconsistent with the
         provisions of this treaty, as hereinafter provided, are hereby re-affirmed and declared to be applicable and to continue in
         force as well to the other bands, respectively, parties to this treaty, as to the Tabequache band of Utah Indians.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The United States agree that the following district of country, to wit: Commencing at that point on the southern boundary-line
         of the Territory of Colorado where the meridian of longitude 107° west from Greenwich crosses the same; running thence north
         with said meridian to a point fifteen miles due north of where said meridian intersects the fortieth parallel of north latitude;
         thence due west to the western boundary-line of said Territory; thence south with said western boundary-line of said Territory to the southern boundary-line
         of said Territory; thence east with said southern boundary-line to the place of beginning, shall be, and the same is hereby,
         set apart for the absolute and undisturbed use and occupation of the Indians herein named, and for such other friendly tribes
         or individual Indians as from time to time they may be willing, with the consent of the United States, to admit among them;
         and the United States now solemnly agree that no persons, except those herein authorized so to do, and except such officers,
         agents, and employés of the Government as may be authorized to enter upon Indian reservations in discharge of duties enjoined by law shall ever be permitted to pass over, settle upon, or reside in the Territory described in this article, excepts as herein otherwise provided.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      It is further agreed by the Indians, parties hereto, that henceforth they will and do hereby relinquish all claims and rights in and to any portion of the United States or Territories, except such as are embraced in the limits defined
         in the preceding article.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The United States agree to establish two agencies on the reservation provided for in article two, one for the Grand River, Yampa, and Uintah bands, on White River,
         and the other for the Tabequache, Muache, Weeminuche, and Capote bands, on the Rio de los Pinos, on the reservation, and at its own proper expense to
         construct at each of said agencies a warehouse, or store-room, for the use of the agent in storing goods belonging to the
         Indians, to cost not exceeding fifteen hundred dollars; an agency-building for the residence of the agent, to cost not exceeding
         three thousand dollars; and four other buildings for a carpenter, farmer, blacksmith, and miller, each to cost not exceeding two thousand dollars; also a school-house or mission-building, so soon as a sufficient number of children can be induced by the agent to attend school,
         which shall not cost exceeding five thousand dollars.The United States agree, further, to cause to be erected on said reservation, and near to each agency herein authorized, respectively,
         a good
      
      
      Page 991
      
      water-power saw-mill, with a grist-mill and a shingle-machine attached, the same to cost not exceeding eight thousand dollars
         each: Provided, The same shall not be erected until such time as the Secretary of the Interior may think it necessary to the wants of the
         Indians.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      The United States agree that the agents for said Indians, in the future, shall make their homes at the agency-buildings; that they shall reside among the Indians,
         and keep an office open at all times for the purpose of prompt and diligent inquiry into such matters of complaint by and
         against the Indians, as may be presented for investigation under the provisions of their treaty stipulations, as also for
         the faithful discharge of other duties enjoined on them by law. In all cases of depredation on person or property they shall cause the evidence to be taken in writing and forwarded, together with their
         finding, to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, whose decision, subject to the revision of the Secretary of the Interior,
         shall be binding on the parties to this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 6.
      
      If bad men among the whites or among other people, subject to the authority of the United States, shall commit any wrong upon the person
         or property of the Indians, the United States will, upon proof made to the agent and forwarded to the Commissioner of Indian
         Affairs at Washington City, proceed at once to cause the offender to be arrested and punished according to the laws of the
         United States, and also re-imburse the injured person for the loss sustained.If bad men among the Indians shall commit a wrong or depredation upon the person or property of any one, white, black, or Indian, subject
         to the authority of the United States and at peace therewith, the tribes herein named solemnly agree that they will, on proof
         made to their agent and notice to him, deliver up the wrong-doer to the United States, to be tried and punished according
         to its laws, and in case they wilfully refuse so to do, the person injured shall be re-imbursed for his loss from the annuities
         or other moneys due or to become due to them under this or other treaties made with the United States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 7.
      
      If any individual belonging to said tribe of Indians or legally incorporated with them, being the head of a family, shall
         desire to commence farming, he shall have the privilege to select, in the presence and with the assistance of the agent then
         in charge, by metes and bounds, a tract of land within said reservation not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres in extent,
         which tract, when so selected, certified, and recorded in the land-book, as herein directed, shall cease to be held in common,
         but the same may be occupied and held in exclusive possession of the person selecting it and his family so long as he or they may continue to cultivate
         it. Any person over eighteen years of age, not being the head of a family may, in like manner, select and cause to be certified
         to him or her for purposes of cultivation, a quantity of land not exceeding eighty acres in extent, and thereupon be entitled
         to the exclusive possession of the same as above directed.For each tract of land so selected a certificate containing a description thereof, and the name of the person selecting it,
         with a certificate endorsed thereon that the same has been recorded, shall be delivered to the party entitled to it, by the
         agent, after the same shall have been recorded by him in a book to be kept in his office, subject to inspection, which said
         book shall be known as the “Ute Land-Book.”The President may at any time order a survey of the reservation; and when so surveyed Congress shall provide for protecting the rights of such Indian settlers in
         their improvements, and may fix the character of the title held by each.The United States may pass such laws on the subject of alienation and descent of property, and on all subjects connected with the government of the Indians on said reservation and
         the internal police thereof as may be thought proper.
      
      
      Page 992
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 8.
      
      In order to insure the civilization of the bands entering into this treaty, the necessity of education is admitted, especially by such of them as are or may be engaged in either pastoral, agricultural, or other peaceful
         pursuits of civilized life on said reservation, and they therefore pledge themselves to induce their children, male and female,
         between the age[s] of seven and eighteen years, to attend school; and it is hereby made the duty of the agent for said Indians to see that this stipulation is complied with
         to the greatest possible extent; and the United States agree that for every thirty children between said ages who can be induced to attend school a house shall be
         provided, and a teacher competent to teach the elementary branches of an English education shall be furnished, who will reside
         among said Indians, and faithfully discharge his or her duties as teacher, the provisions of this article to continue for
         not less than twenty years.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 9.
      
      When the head of a family or lodge shall have selected lands, and received his certificate as above described, and the agent
         shall be satisfied that he intends, in good faith, to commence cultivating the soil for a living, he shall be entitled to
         receive seeds and agricultural implements for the first year, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars, and for each succeeding
         year he shall continue to farm, for a period of three years more, he shall be entitled to receive seeds and implements as
         aforesaid, not exceeding in value fifty dollars; and it is further stipulated that such persons as commence farming shall
         receive instructions from the farmer herein provided for; and it is further stipulated that an additional blacksmith to the one provided for in the treaty of October seventh, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three,
         referred to in article one of this treaty, shall be provided with such iron, steel, and other material as may be needed for
         the Uintah, Yampa, and Grand River agency.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 10.
      
      At any time after ten years from the making of this treaty, the United States shall have the privilege of withdrawing the farmers, blacksmiths, carpenters, and millers herein, and in the treaty of October seventh, one thousand eight
         hundred and sixty-three, referred to in article one of this treaty, provided for, but in case of such withdrawal, an additional
         sum thereafter of ten thousand dollars per annum shall be devoted to the education of said Indians, and the Commissioner of
         Indian Affairs shall, upon careful inquiry into their condition, make such rules and regulations, subject to the approval
         of the Secretary of the Interior, for the expenditure of said sum as will best promote the educational and moral improvement
         of said Indians.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 11.
      
      That a sum, sufficient in the discretion of Congress, for the absolute wants of said Indians, but not to exceed thirty thousand
         dollars per annum, for thirty years, shall be expended, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior for clothing, blankets, and such other articles of utility as he may think proper and necessary upon full official reports of
         the condition and wants of said Indians.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 12.
      
      That an additional sum sufficient, in the discretion of Congress, (but not to exceed thirty thousand dollars per annum,) to
         supply the wants of said Indians for food, shall be annually expended under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
         in supplying said Indians with beef, mutton, wheat, flour, beans, and potatoes, until such time as said Indians shall be found
         to be capable of sustaining themselves.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 13.
      
      That for the purpose of inducing said Indians to adopt habits of civilized life and become self-sustaining, the sum of forty-five
         thousand dollars, for the first year, shall be expended, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in providing
         each lodge or head of a family in said confederated bands with one gentle American cow, as distinguished from the ordinary Mexican or Texas breed, and five head of sheep.
      
      
      Page 993
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 14.
      
      The said confederated bands agree that whensoever, in the opinion of the President of the United States, the public interest
         may require it, that all roads, highways, and railroads, authorized by law, shall have the right of way through the reservations herein designated.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 15.
      
      The United States hereby agree to furnish the Indians the teachers, carpenters, millers, farmers, and blacksmiths, as herein contemplated, and that such appropriations shall be made
         from time to time, on the estimates of the Secretary of the Interior, as will be sufficient to employ such persons.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 16.
      
      No treaty for the cession of any portion or part of the reservation herein described, which may be held in common, shall be of any validity
         or force as against the said Indians, unless executed and signed by at least three-fourths of all the adult male Indians occupying
         or interested in the same; and no cession by the tribe shall be understood or construed in such manner as to deprive, without
         his consent, any individual member of the tribe of his right to any tract of land selected by him, as provided in article
         seven of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 17.
      
      All appropriations now made, or to be hereafter made, as well as goods and stock due these Indians under existing treaties, shall
         apply as if this treaty had not been made, and be divided proportionately among the seven bands named in this treaty, as also
         shall all annuities and allowances hereafter to be made: Provided, That if any chief of either of the confederated bands make war against the people of the United States, or in any manner violate
         this treaty in any essential part, said chief shall forfeit his position as chief and all rights to any of the benefits of
         this treaty: But provided further, Any Indian of either of these confederated bands who shall remain at peace, and abide by the terms of this treaty in all its
         essentials, shall be entitled to its benefits and provisions, notwithstanding his particular chief and band may have forfeited
         their rights thereto.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the commissioners as aforesaid on the part of the United States, and the undersigned representatives
         of the Tabequache, Muache, Capote, Weeminuche, Yampa, Grand River and Uintah bands of Ute Indians, duly authorized and empowered to act
         for the body of the people of said bands, have hereunto set their hands and seals, at the place and on the day, month and
         year first hereinbefore written.
      
      
      N. G. Taylor, [SEAL.]
      
      A. C. Hunt, governor, &c., [SEAL.]
      
      Kit Carson, [SEAL.]
      
      Commissioners on the part of the United States.
      
      U-re, his x mark.
      
      Ka-ni-ache, his x mark.
      
      An-ka-tosh, his x mark.
      
      Jose-Maria, his x mark.
      
      Ni-ca-a-gat, or Greenleaf, his x mark.
      
      Guero, his x mark.
      
      Pa-ant, his x mark.
      
      Pi-ah, his x mark.
      
      Su-vi-ap, his x mark.
      
      Pa-bu-sat, his x mark.
      
      Witnesses:
      
      Daniel C. Oakes, United States Indian agent.
      
      Lafayette Head, United States Indian agent.
      
      U. M. Curtis, interpreter.
      
      H. P. Bennet.
      
      Albert G. Boone.
      
      E. H. Kellogg.
      
      Wm. J. Godfroy.
      Page 994
      
      We, the chiefs and headmen of the aforesaid named bands of Ute Indians, duly authorized by our people, do hereby assent and
         agree to the amendment of the Senate, the same having been interpreted to us, and being fully understood by us.
      
      
      Witness our hands and seals on the days and dates set opposite our names respectively.
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Date ofsigning.
                     
                     
                     Signatures.
                     
                     Interpretation of names.
                     
                     Band.
                  
                  
                  
                     1868.Aug. 15
                     
                     
                     
                        Sac-we-och, his x mark.
                        
                        Tah-nach, his x mark.
                        
                        Pah-ah-pitch, his x mark.
                        
                        Tab-y-ou-souck-en, his x mark.
                        
                        Shou-wach-a-wicket, his x mark.
                        
                        Pe-ah, his x mark.
                        
                        Ah-ump, his x mark.
                        
                        An-tro, his x mark.
                        
                        Pah, his x mark.
                        
                        Quir-nauch, his x mark.
                        
                        Yah-mah-na, his x mark.
                     
                     
                     White Lock of Hair.Granite Rock.Sweet Herb.Sun Rise.Rain Bow.Black Tail Deer.Pine Tree.Rocking.Water.Eagle.Briar.
                     
                     
                     Grand   RiverUte IndiansUintah UteIndians.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
      
      Page 995
      
      Signed in the presence of—
      
      A. Sagendorf.
      
      Uriah M. Curtis, special interpreter.
      
      E. H. Kellogg, secretary Colorado Indian superintendency.
      
      Daniel C. Oakes, United States Indian agent.
      
      Louis O. Howell.
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Date ofsignature.
                     
                     
                     Signature.
                     
                     Interpretation of names.
                     
                     Band.
                  
                  
                  
                     Sept. 1
                     
                     
                        Sa-wa-wat-se-witch, his x mark.
                        
                        Colorado, his x mark.
                        
                        Pa-ant, his x mark.
                        
                        Su-ri-ap, his x mark.
                        
                        Nick-a-a-gah, his x mark.
                     
                     
                     Blue River.Red. (Spanish.)Tall.Lodge Pole's Son.Green Leaf.
                     
                     
                     Yampas.
                  
                  
               
            
         
      
      
      Signed in the presence of—
      
      E. H. Kellogg, secretary Indian superintendency Colorado Territory.
      
      U. M. Curtis, special United States interpreter.
      
      Daniel C. Oakes, United States Indian agent.
      
      H. P. Bennet.
      
      Louis O. Howell.
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Date ofsinging.
                     
                     
                     Signatures.
                     
                     Interpretation of names.
                     
                     Band.
                  
                  
                  
                     Sept. 14
                     
                     
                        Ou-ray, his x mark.
                        
                        Sha-wa-na, his x mark.
                        
                        Guero, his x mark.
                        
                        Tah-be-wah-che-kah, his x mark.
                        
                        Ah-kan-ash, his x mark.
                        
                        Ka-ni-ache, his x mark.
                        
                        An-ka-tosh, his x mark.
                        
                        Sap-po-wan-e-ri, his x mark.
                        
                        Tu-sa-sa-ri-be, his x mark.
                        
                        Na-ca-get, his x mark.
                        
                        Ya-ma-aj, his x mark.
                     
                     
                     Arrow.Blue Flower.Light HairedSun Rise.Red Cloud.One who was taken down.Red. (Ute.)Son to Tu-sa-sa-ri-be.or George.
                     
                     
                     MuachesTabaguaches.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
      
      
      Signed in the presence of—
      
      Wm. J. Godfroy.
      
      Daniel C. Oakes, United States Indian agent.
      
      Edward R. Harris, special interpreter.
      
      E. H. Kellogg, secretary Colorado Indian superintendency.
      
      Louis O. Howell.
      
      Uriah M. Curtis, interpreter.
      
      To the other copy of these instruments are signed as witnesses the following names: Juan Martine Martines, (friend of Indians,)
         Albert H. Pfeiffer, (their old agent,) Manuel Lusero.
      
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Date ofsigning.
                     
                     
                     Signature.
                     
                     Interpretation of names.
                     
                     Band.
                  
                  
                  
                     Sept. 24.
                     
                     
                        So-bo-ta, his x mark.
                        
                        I-si-dro, his x mark.
                        
                        Sow-wa-ch-wiche, his x mark.
                        
                        Ba-bu-zat, his x mark.
                        
                        Sab-ou-ichie, his x mark.
                        
                        Chu-i-wish, his x mark.
                        
                        I-ta-li-uh, his x mark.
                        
                        E-ri-at-ow-up, his x mark.
                        
                        Aa-ca-wa, his x mark.
                        
                        Ac-i-apo-co-ego, his x mark.
                        
                        Martine, his x mark.
                        
                        Ou-a-chee, his x mark.
                        
                        Tap-ap-o-watie, his x mark.
                        
                        Su-vi-ath, his x mark.
                        
                        Wi-ar-ow, his x mark.
                     
                     
                     A Big Frock. A Green Herb.A Crystal Drop Water.Wounded in the Abdomen.Long Tailed Deer.Water Carrier.Utes.Red Eyes.Red Snake.Named after a Mexican friend.The Swoop of a Bird. 
                     
                     
                     Ca-po-tasUtes.
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
      
      Signed in the presence of—
      
      Lafayette Head.
      
      Alb. H. Pfeiffer.
      
      Manuel Lusero.
      
      E. H. Kellogg, secretary Colorado Indian superintendency.
      
      Uriah M. Curtis, interpreter.
      
      Daniel C. Oakes, United States Indian agent.
      
      
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Date ofsigning.
                     
                     
                     Signatures.
                     
                     Interpretation of names.
                     
                     Band.
                  
                  
                  
                     Sept. 25.
                     
                     
                        Pa-ja-cho-pe, his x mark.
                        
                        Pa-no-ar, his x mark.
                        
                        Su-bi-to-au, his x mark.
                        
                        Te-sa-ga-ra-pou-it, his x mark.
                        
                        Sa-po-eu-a-wa, his x mark.
                        
                        Qu-er-a-ta, his x mark.
                     
                     
                     A Claw.Broad Brow.Ugly Man.White Eyes.Big Belly.A Bear.
                     
                     
                     We-mi-nuches Utes
                  
                  
               
            
         
      
      
      Signed in the presence of—
      
      Lafayette Head.
      
      Manuel Lusero.
      
      Alb. H. Pfeiffer.
      
      E. H. Kellogg, secretary Colorado Indian superintendency.
      
      Juan Martine Martines, interpreter and Indian's friend.
      
      Daniel C. Oakes, United States Indian agent.
      
      Uriah M. Curtis, interpreter.
      
      I hereby certify that, pursuant to the order from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, dated August fourth, one thousand eight
         hundred and sixty-eight, I visited and held councils with the various bands of
      
      Page 996
      
      Ute Indians, at the times and places named in this instrument; and to all those familiar with the provisions of the treaty
         referred to have had the Senate amendment fully interpreted to them, and to all those not familiar with the treaty itself
         I have had the same fully explained and interpreted; and the forty-seven chiefs whose names are hereunto subscribed, placed
         their names to this instrument with the full knowledge of its contents and likewise with the provisions of the treaty itself.
      
      
      Given under my hand at Denver, this fourteenth day of October, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight.
      
      A. C. Hunt,Governor, Ex-officio Superintendent Indian Affairs.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
