
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE WEA, 1818.
         
         Oct. 2, 1818. | 7 Stat., 186. | Proclamation, Jan. 7, 1819.
         
         Page Images:
            169 | 170
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Cession of land by the Weas.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Reservation.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Grant to C. Dagemy and Mary Shields.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     The Weas sanction a cession of land by the Kickapoos in 1809.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment to Weas.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 169
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded, at St. Mary's, between the United States of America, by their Commissioners, Jonathan
            Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Park, and the Wea tribe of Indians.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The said Wea tribe of Indians agree to cede to the United State all the lands claimed and owned by the said tribe, within the limits
         of the states of Indiana, Ohio, and Illinois.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The said Wea tribe of Indians reserve to themselves the following described tract of land, viz: Beginning at the mouth of Raccoon creek; thence by the present
         boundary line, seven miles; thence, northeasterly, seven miles, to a point seven miles from the Wabash river; thence to the
         Wabash river, by a line parallel to the present boundary line aforesaid; and thence, by the Wabash river, to the place of
         beginning: to be holden by the said tribe as Indian reservations are usually held.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The United States agree to grant to Christmas Dageny and Mary Shields, formerly Mary Dageny, children of Mechinquamesha, sister of Jacco, a chief of
         the said tribe, and their heirs, one section
      
      
      Page 170
      
      of land each; but the land hereby granted shall not be conveyed or transfered to any person or persons, by the grantees aforesaid,
         or their heirs, or either of them, but with the consent of the President of the United States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The said Wea tribe of Indians accede to, and sanction, the cession of land made by the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, in the second article
         of a treaty concluded between the United States and the said Kickapoo tribe, on the ninth day of December, one thousand eight
         hundred and nine.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      In consideration of the cession made in the foregoing articles of this treaty, the United States agree to pay to the said Wea tribe of Indians, one thousand eight hundred and fifty dollars annually, in addition to the sum of one
         thousand one hundred and fifty dollars, (the amount of their former annuity,) making a sum total of three thousand dollars;
         to be paid in silver, by the United States, annually, to the said tribe, on the reservation described by the second article
         of this treaty.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parke, commissioners as aforesaid, and the sachems,
         chiefs, and warriors, of the Wea tribe of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at St. Mary's, in the State of Ohio, this
         second day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen.
      
      
      Jonathan Jennings,
      
      Lewis Cass,
      
      B. Parke,
      
      Jacco, his x mark,
      
      Shamana, his x mark,
      
      Shequiah, or Little Eyes, his x mark,
      
      Quema, or Young Man, his x mark,
      
      Pequiah, his x mark,
      
      Shingonsa, or Mink, his x mark,
      
      Shepaqua, or Leaves, his x mark.
      
          Kickapoo chiefs:
      
      Metagekoka, or Big Tree, his x mark,
      
      Wako or Fox, his x mark.
      
      In presence of—
      
      John Dill, secretary to the commissioners,
      
      William Turner, secretary,
      
      John Johnson, Indian agent,
      
      William Prince, Indian agent
      
      B. F. Stickney, S. I. A.
      
      John Conner,
      
      Joseph Barron, interpreter,
      
      John T. Chunn, major, Third Infantry,
      
      J. Hackley, captain, Third Infantry,
      
      Benedict Th. Flaget, Bishop of Bardstown.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
