
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE WINNEBAGO, 1816.
         
         June 3, 1816. | 7 Stat., 144. | Proclamation, Dec. 30, 1816.
         
         Page Images:
            130 | 131
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Injuries, etc., forgiven.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Former cessions, treaties, etc., confirmed.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Protection of United States acknowledged.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians to remain distinct from the rest of their tribe.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Prisoners to be delivered up.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 130
      
      A treaty of peace and friendship made and concluded between William Clark, Ninian Edwards, and Auguste Chouteau, commissioners
            plenipotentiary of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said states, of the one part, and the undersigned
            chiefs and warriors of that portion of the Winnebago tribe or nation residing on the Ouisconsin river, of the other part.
      
      
      Whereas the undersigned chiefs and warriors, as well as that portion of the nation which they represent, have separated themselves
         from the rest of their nation, and reside in a village on the Ouisconsin river, and are desirous of returning to a state of
         friendly relations with the United States, the parties hereto have agreed to the following articles.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      Every injury or act of hostility, committed by one or either of the contracting parties against the other, shall be mutually
         forgiven and forgot; and all the friendly relations that existed between them before the late war, shall be, and the same
         are hereby, renewed.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The undersigned chiefs and warriors, for themselves and those they represent, do by these presents, confirm to the United
         States all and every cession of land heretofore made by their nation to the British, French, or Spanish government, within the limits of the United
         States, or their territories; and also, all and every treaty, contract, and agreement, heretofore concluded between the United
         States and the said tribe or nation, as far as their interest in the same extends.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, for themselves and those they represent, do hereby acknowledge themselves
         to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other nation, power, or sovereign, whatsoever.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The aforesaid chiefs and warriors, for themselves and those they represent, do further promise to remain distinct and separate from the rest of their tribe or nation, giving them no aid or assistance whatever, until peace
         shall also be concluded between the United States and the said tribe or nation.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      The contracting parties do hereby agree, promise, and oblige themselves, reciprocally, to deliver up all prisoners now in their hands (by what means soever the same may have come into their possession) to the officer commanding
         at Prairie du Chien, to be by him restored to the respective parties hereto, as soon as it may be practicable.
      
      
      
      
      In witness whereof, the commissioners aforesaid, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors as aforesaid, have hereunto subscribed
         their names, and affixed their seals, this third day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixteen,
         and of the independence of the United States, the fortieth.
      
      
       William Clark, [L. S.]
      
      Ninian Edwards, [L. S.]
      
      Aug. Chouteau, [L. S.]
      
      Choukeka, or Dekare, the Spoon,
               his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Onunaka, or Karamanu, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Achahouska, the White Sky, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Chenapinka, the Good House, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Makamka, the Earth, his x mark, [L. S.]
      Page 131
      
      Wechoka, the Green Feather, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Shougkapar, the Dog, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Nekousaa, the Main Channel, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Wapanoneker, the Bear, his mark, [L. S.]
      
      Opwarchickwaka, the Rain, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Chepurganika, the little Buffalo Head, his x mark, [L. S.]
      
      Done at St. Louis, in the presence of—
      
      R. Wash, secretary to the commission,
      
      R. Paul, C. T. of the C.
      
      Wm. O. Allen, captain U. S. Corps of Artillery,
      
      N. Boilvin, agent,
      
      Thomas Forsyth, Indian agent,
      
      Maurice Blondeaux, Indian agent,
      
      Henry Delorier, interpreter,
      
      Pierre Lapointe, interpreter,
      
      Baptiste Pereault, interpreter,
      
      Samuel Solomon, interpreter,
      
      Jacques Mette, interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
