
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE WINNEBAGO, ETC, 1828.
         
         date | citation
         
         Page Images:
            292 | 293 | 294
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Preamble.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Provisional boundary between lands of United States and those of the Indians.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Ferries to be established over Rock River.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Payment to Indians for trespasses on their mines, etc.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 292
      
      Articles of agreement with the Winnebago Tribe and the United Tribes of Potawatamie, Chippewa and Ottawa Indians.
      
      THE Government of the United States having appointed Commissioners to treat with the Sac, Fox, Winebago, Potawatamie, Ottawa,
         and Chippewa, tribes of Indians, for the purpose of extinguishing their title to land within the State of Illinois, and the
         Territory of Michigan, situated between the Illinois river and the Lead Mines on Fever River, and in the vicinity of said
         Lead Mines, and for other purposes; and it having been found impracticable, in consequence of the lateness of the period when
         the instructions were issued, the extent of the country occupied by the Indians, and their dispersed situation, to convene
         them in sufficient numbers to justify a cession of land on their part; and the Chiefs of the Winnebago tribe, and of the united
         tribes of the Potawa-tamies, Chippewas, and Ottawas, assembled at Green Bay, having declined at this time to make the desired
         cession, the following temporary arrangement, subject to the ratification of the President and Senate of the United States,
         has this day been made, between Lewis Cass and Pierre Menard, Commissioners of the United States, and the said Winnebago tribe,
         and the United tribes of Potawatamie, Chip- pewa, and Ottawa, Indians, in order to remove the difficulties which have arisen
         in consequence of the occupation, by white persons, of
      
      
      Page 293
      
      the part of the mining country which has not been heretofore ceded to the United States.
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      It is agreed that the following shall be the provisional boundary between the lands of the United States and those of the said Indians: The Ouisconsin river, from its
         mouth to its nearest approach to the Blue Mounds; thence southerly, passing east of the said mounds, to the head of that branch
         of the Pocatolaka creek which runs near the Spotted Arm's village; thence with the said branch to the main forks of Pocatolaka
         creek; thence southeasterly, to the ridge dividing the Winebago country from that of the Potawatamie, Chippewa, and Ottawa
         tribes; thence southerly, with the said ridge, to the line running from Chicago to the Mississippi, near Rock Island. And
         it is fully understood, that the United States may freely occupy the country between these boundaries and the Mississippi
         river, until a treaty shall be held with the Indians for its cession; which treaty, it is presumed, will be held in the year
         1829. But it is expressly understood and agreed, that if any white persons shall cross the line herein described, and pass
         into the Indian country, for the purpose of mining, or for any other purpose whatever, the Indians shall not interfere with
         nor molest such persons, but that the proper measures for their removal shall be referred to the President of the United States.
         In the mean time, however, it is agreed, that any just compensation to which the Indians may be entitled for any injuries
         committed by white persons on the Indian side of the said line, shall be paid to the said Indians at the time such treaty
         may be held—It is also agreed by the Indians that a ferry may be established over the Rock River, where the Fort Clark road crosses the same; and, also, a ferry over the same river at the
         crossing of the Lewiston road.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      The United States agree to pay to the Winebago, Potawatamie, Chippewa, and Ottawa Indians, the sum of twenty thousand dollars, in goods, at the time and place when and where the said treaty may be held: which
         said sum shall be equitably divided between the said tribes, and shall be in full compensation for all the injuries and damages
         sustained by them, in consequence of the occupation of any part of the mining country by white persons, from the commencement
         of such occupation until the said treaty shall be held. Excepting, however, such compensation as the Indians may be entitled
         to, for any injuries hereafter committed on their side of the line hereby established.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said commissioners and the chiefs of the said tribes have hereunto set their hands at Green bay,
         in the territory of Michigan, this 25th day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight.
      
      
      Lewis Cass,
      
      Pierre Menard.
      
          Winnebagoes:
      
      Nan-kaw, or wood, his x mark,
      
      Koan-kaw, or chief, his x mark,
      
      Hoo-waun-ee-kaw, or little elk, his x mark,
      
      Tshay-ro-tshoan-kaw, or smoker, his x mark,
      
      Haump-ee-man-ne-kaw, or he who walks by day, his x mark,
      
      Hoo-tshoap-kaw, or four legs, his x mark,
      
      Morah-tshay-kaw, or little priest, his x mark,
      
      Kau-ree-kau-saw-kaw, or white crow, his x mark,
      
      Wau-kaun-haw-kaw, or snake skin, his x mark,
      
      Man-ah-kee-tshump-kaw, or spotted arm, his x mark,
      
      Wee-no-shee-kaw, his x mark,
      
      Tshaw-wan-shaip-shootsh-kaw, his x mark,
      
      Hoo-tshoap-kaw, or four legs, (senior) his x mark,
      
      Nau-soo-ray-risk-kaw, his x mark,
      
      Shoank-tshunsk-kaw, or black wolf, his x mark,
      
      Wau-tshe-roo-kun-ah-kaw, or he who is master of the lodge, his x mark,
      
      Kay-rah-tsho-kaw, or clear weather, his x mark,
      
      Hay-ro-kaw-kaw, or he without horns, his x mark,
      
      Wau-kaum-kam, or snake, his x mark,
      
      Kan-kaw-saw-kaw, his x mark,
      
      Man-kay-ray-kau, or spotted earth, his x mark,
      
      Thaun-wan-kaw, or wild cat, his x mark,
      
      Span-you-kaw, or Spaniard, his x mark,
      
      Shoank-skaw-kaw, or white dog, his x mark,
      Page 294
      
      Nee-hoo-kaw, or whirlpool, his x mark,
      
      Nath-kay-saw-kaw, or fierce heart, his x mark,
      
      Wheank-kaw, or duck, his x mark,
      
      Saw-waugh-kee-wau, or he that leaves the yellow track, his x mark,
      
      Sin-a-gee-wen, or ripple, his x mark,
      
      Shush-que-nau, his x mark,
      
      Sa-gin-nai-nee-pee, his x mark,
      
      Nun-que-wee-bee, or thunder sitting, his x mark,
      
      O-bwa-gunn, or thunder turn back, his x	mark,
      
      Tusk-que-gun, or last feather, his x mark,
      
      Maun-gee-zik, or big foot, his x mark,
      
      Way-meek-see-goo, or wampum, his x mark,
      
      Meeks-zoo, his x mark,
      
      Pay-mau-bee-mee, or him that looks over, his x mark.
      
      Witnesses present:
      
      W. B. Lee, secretary,
      
      H. J. B. Brevoort, United States Indian	agent,
      
      R. A. Forsyth,
      
      Jno. H. Kinzie,
      
      John Marsh,
      
      E. A. Brush,
      
      G. W. Silliman,
      
      C. Chouteau,
      
      Peter Menard, jun., Indian subagent,
      
      Henry Gratiot,
      
      Pierre Paquet, Winnebago interpreter,
      
      J. Ogee, Potawatamie interpreter.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
