
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE WYANDOT, ETC., 1818.
         
         Sept. 17, 1818. | 7 Stat., 178. | Proclamation, Jan. 4, 1819.
         
         Page Images:
            162 | 163
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     The grants in the treaty of 29th Sept., 1817, to be considered only as reservations for the use of the Indians.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Additional reservation for the Wyandots.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Reservation for Wyandots at Solomon's town, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Additional reservation for the Shawnees and Senecas.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Further reservation for the Senecas.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Grants to certain persons not to be conveyed without permission.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Additional annuities to the Wyandots, etc.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     When to take effect.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 162
      
      Articles of a treaty made and concluded, at St. Mary's, in the state of Ohio, between Lewis Cass and Duncan McArthur, commissioners
            of the United States, with full power and authority to hold conferences, and conclude and sign a treaty or treaties, with
            all or any of the tribes or nations of Indians within the boundaries of the state of Ohio, of and concerning all matters interesting
            to the United States and the said nations of Indians, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors, of the Wyandot, Seneca, Shawnese,
            and Ottawas, tribes of Indians; being supplementary to the treaty made and concluded with the said tribes, and the Delaware,
            Potawatamie, and Chippewa, tribes of Indians, at the foot of the Rapids of the Miami of Lake Erie, on the twenty-ninth day
            of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventeen.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      It is agreed, between the United States and the parties hereunto, that the several tracts of land, described in the treaty
         to which this is supplementary, and agreed thereby to be granted by the United States to the chiefs of the respective tribes named therein, for the use of the individuals of the said
         tribes, and also the tract described in the twentieth article of the said treaty, shall not be thus granted, but shall be
         excepted from the cession made by the said tribes to the United States, reserved for the use of the said Indians, and held
         by them in the same manner as Indian reservations have been heretofore held. But [it] is further agreed, that the tracts thus
         reserved shall be reserved for the use of the Indians named in the schedule to the said treaty, and held by them and their
         heirs forever, unless ceded to the United States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      It is also agreed that there shall be reserved for the use of the Wyandots, in addition to the reservations before made, fifty-five thousand six hundred and eighty acres of land, to be laid off in two
         tracts, the first to adjoin the south line of the section of six hundred and forty acres of land heretofore reserved for the
         Wyandot chief, the Cherokee Boy, and to extend south to the north line of the reserve of twelve miles square, at Upper Sandusky,
         and the other to adjoin the east line of the reserve of twelve miles square, at Upper Sandusky, and to extend east for quantity.There shall also be reserved, for the use of the Wyandots residing at Solomon's town, and on Blanchard's fork, in addition to the reservations
         before made, sixteen thousand acres of land, to be laid off in a square form, on the head of Blanchard's fork, the centre
         of which shall be at the Big Spring, on the trace leading from Upper Sandusky to fort Findlay; and one hundred and sixty acres
         of land, for the use of the Wyandots, on the west side of the Sandusky river, adjoining the said river, and the lower line
         of two sections of land, agreed, by the treaty to which this is supplementary, to be granted to Elizabeth Whitaker.There shall also be reserved, for the use of the Shawnese, in addition to the reservations before made, twelve thousand eight hundred acres of
         land, to be laid off adjoining the east line of their reserve of ten miles square, at Wapaughkonetta; and for the use of the
         Shawnese and Senecas, eight thousand nine hundred and sixty acres of land, to be laid off adjoining the west line of the reserve
         of forty-eight square miles at Lewistown. And the last reserve hereby made, and the former reserve at the same place, shall
         be equally divided by an east and west line, to be drawn through the same. And the north half of the said tract shall be reserved
         for the use of the Senecas who reside there, and the south half for the use of the Shawnese who reside there.There shall also be reserved for the use of the Senecas, in addition to the reservations before made, ten thousand acres of land, to be laid
      
      
      Page 163
      
      off on the east side of the Sandusky river, adjoining the south line of their reservation of thirty thousand acres of land,
         which begins on the Sandusky river, at the lower corner of William Spicer's section, and excluding therefrom the said William
         Spicer's section.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      It is hereby agreed that the tracts of land, which, by the eighth article of the treaty to which this is supplementary, are
         to be granted by the United States to the persons therein mentioned, shall never be conveyed, by them or their heirs, without the
         permission of the President of the United States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      The United States agree to pay to the Wyandots an additional annuity of five hundred dollars, forever; to the Shawnese, and to the Senecas of Lewistown, an additional annuity
         of one thousand dollars, forever; and to the Senecas an additional annuity of five hundred dollars, forever; and to the Ottawas
         an additional annuity of one thousand five hundred dollars, forever. And these annuities shall be paid at the places, and
         in the manner, prescribed by the treaty to which this is supplementary.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 5.
      
      This treaty shall take effect, and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall be ratified by the President of the United
         States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof.
      
      
      
      
      In testimony whereof, the said Lewis Cass and Duncan McArthur, commissioners as aforesaid, and the sachems, chiefs, and warriors,
         of the Wyandot, Seneca, Shawanee, and Ottawa tribes of Indians, have hereunto set their hands, at St. Mary's, in the state
         of Ohio, this seventeenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighteen.
      
      
      Lewis Cass,
      
      Duncan McArthur
      
          Ottawas:
      
      Keueaghbon, or Bald Eagle, his x mark,
      
      Peshekata, or Marked Legs, his x mark,
      
      Shwanabe, or Muskrat, his x mark,
      
      Toutogana, or The Dog, his x mark,
      
      Tushquagon, or McCarty, his x mark,
      
      Mushkema, his x mark,
      
          Shawanees:
      
      Cuttewekasa, or Black Hoof, his x mark,
      
      Shemenetu, or Big Snake, his x mark,
      
      Biaseka, or Wolf, his x mark,
      
      Pomthe, or Walker, his x mark,
      
      Chacalawa, or Long Tail, his x mark,
      
      Pemthata, or Perry, his x mark,
      
      Red Man, or Capt. Reed, his x mark,
      
      Chiakeska, or Captain Tom, his x mark,
      
      Tecuntequa, or Elk in the Water, his x mark,
      
      Quitawepa, or Colonel Lewis, his x mark,
      
      Captain Pipe, his x mark,
      
      James Armstrong, his x mark,
      
          Ottowas:
      
      Metesheneiwa, or Bear's Man, his x mark,
      
      Oquenoxe, his x mark,
      
      Peneshaw, or Eagle, his x mark,
      
          Wyandots:
      
      Douquad, or Half King, his x mark,
      
      Rontondu, or War Pole, his x mark,
      
      Tuayaurontoyou, or Between the Logs, his x mark,
      
      Dauatout, or John Hicks his x mark,
      
      Horonu, or Cherokee Boy, his x mark,
      
      Teoudetosso, or George Punch, his x mark,
      
      Hawdoro, or Matthews, his x mark,
      
      Skoutous, his x mark,
      
      Quouqua, his x mark,
      
          Senecas:
      
      Methomea, or Civil John, his x mark,
      
      Skekoghkell, or Big Turtle, his x mark,
      
      Waghkonoxie, or White Bone, his x mark,
      
      Tochequia, or Yellow Bone, his x mark,
      
      Captain Togone, his x mark,
      
      Cunneshohant, or Harris, his x mark,
      
      Tousonecta, or his Blanket Down, his x mark,
      
      Wiping Stick, his x mark,
      
      In presence of—
      
      Wm. Turner, secretary,
      
      John Johnston, Indian agent,
      
      B. F. Stickney, Indian agent,
      
      B. Parke, district judge of Indiana,
      
      Jonathan Jennings, governor of Indiana,
      
      Wm. P. Rathbone, army contractor,
      
      Alexander Wolcott, jr., Indian agent,
      
      Detroit,
      
      John Conner,
      
      J. T. Chunn, major of Third Infantry,
      
      R. A. Forsyth, jr., secretary Indian Department,
      
      G. M. Grosvenor, captain Eighth Infantry.
      
      Sworn interpreters:
      
      Henry I. Hunt,
      
      John Kenzer, subagent,
      
      F. Duchouquet,
      
      W. Knaggs,
      
      A. Shane,
      
      John B. Walker,
      
      L. Jouett, Indian agent.
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
