
   
      
   
      
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES. Vol. 2, Treaties
      
      
      
   
   
      INDIAN AFFAIRS: LAWS AND TREATIES
      Vol. II, Treaties    
      Compiled and edited by Charles J. Kappler.
         Washington : Government Printing Office, 1904.
      
      
      Home | Disclaimer & Usage | Table of Contents | Index
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
         TREATY WITH THE YANKTON SIOUX, 1837.
         
         Oct. 21, 1837. | 7 Stat., 542. | Proclamation, Feb. 21, 1838.
         
         Page Images:
            496 | 497
         
      
      
      
      
         
         
            
               
                  
                  
                     Margin Notes
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Indians cede all their right in land ceded by treaty of 15th July, 1830.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Consideration therefor.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     How to be expended.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     United States to pay expenses of this treaty.
                     
                  
                  
                  
                     
                     Treaty binding when ratified.
                     
                  
                  
               
            
         
         
      
      
      
      Page 496
      
      Articles of a treaty made at the city of Washington, between Carey A. Harris, thereto specially authorized by the President
            of the United States, and the Yankton tribe of Sioux Indians, by their chiefs and delegates.
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 1.
      
      The Yankton tribe of Sioux Indians cede to the United States all the right and interest in the land ceded by the treaty, concluded with them and other tribes
         on the fifteenth of July, 1830, which they might be entitled to claim, by virtue of the phraseology employed in the second
         article of said treaty.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 2.
      
      In consideration of the cession contained in the preceding article, the United States stipulate to pay them four thousand dollars
         ($4,000.)It is understood and agreed, that fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500) of this sum shall be expended in the purchase of horses and presents, upon the arrival of the chiefs and delegates at St. Louis; two
      
      
      Page 497
      
      thousand dollars ($2,000) delivered to them in goods, at the expense of the United States, at the time their annuities are
         delivered next year; and five hundred dollars ($500) be applied to defray the expense of removing the agency building and
         blacksmith shop from their present site.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 3.
      
      The expenses of this negotiation, and of the chiefs and delegates signing this treaty to this city and to their homes, to be paid
         by the United States.
      
      
      
      
      ARTICLE 4.
      
      This treaty to be binding upon the contracting parties, when the same shall be ratified by the United States.
      
      
      
      
      In witness whereof, the said Carey A. Harris, and the undersigned chiefs and delegates of said tribe, have hereunto set their
         hands at the city of Washington, this 21st day of October A. D. 1837.
      
      
      C. A. Harris.
      
      Ha-sa-za (The Elk's Horn)
      
      Ha-sha-ta (The Forked Horn)
      
      Za-ya-sa (Warrior)
      
      Pa-la-ni-a-pa-pi (Struck by a Riccara)
      
      To-ka-can (He that gives the First Wound)
      
      Mau-ka-ush-can (The Trembling Earth)
      
      Mon-to-he (White crane)
      
      Ish-ta-ap-pi (Struck in the eye)
      
      E-mo-ne.
      
      In presence of—
      
      Chauncey Bush, Secretary.
      
      Joshua Pilcher, Indian agent.
      
      W. Thompson.
      
      (To the Indian names are subjoined marks.)
      
      
      
      
      
      Search | OSU Library Electronic Publishing Center
      
      Produced by the Oklahoma State University Library
         URL: http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/
         Comments to:  lib-dig@okstate.edu
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
   
